PLAYER ELIGIBILITY AND WNBA DRAFT
Section 1. Player Eligibility.
(a) Only players who are women are eligible to play in the WNBA.
(b) A player is eligible to be selected in the WNBA Draft if she: (i) will be at
least twenty-two (22) years old during the calendar year in which such Draft is held and she
either has no remaining intercollegiate eligibility or renounces her remaining intercollegiate
eligibility by written notice to the WNBA at least ten (10) days prior to such Draft; (ii) has
graduated from a four-year college or university prior to such Draft, or "is to graduate" from
such college or university within the three (3)-month period following such Draft and she either
has no remaining intercollegiate eligibility or renounces her remaining intercollegiate eligibility
by written notice to the WNBA at least ten (10) days prior to such Draft or (iii) attended a four-
year college or university, her original class in such college or university has already been
graduated or "is to graduate" within the three (3)-month period following such Draft, and she
either has no remaining intercollegiate eligibility or renounces her remaining intercollegiate
eligibility by written notice to the WNBA at least ten (10) days prior to such Draft. For purposes
of subsection (b)(ii) above, "is to graduate" shall mean that such player would graduate from the
college or university she is currently enrolled in if she were to successfully complete the
coursework she is enrolled in at the time of such Draft and such course load is commensurate
with the previous course loads she has successfully completed. For purposes of subsection
(b)(iii) above, "is to graduate" shall mean that the majority of the students in such class would
graduate from such college or university upon successful completion of the coursework the
members of such class are enrolled in at the time of such Draft.
110Tournament) during the period that begins ten (10) days prior to a Draft; (ii) has remaining
intercollegiate eligibility beyond the season in which she is currently competing; and (iii) is
otherwise eligible for selection in such Draft, may make herself eligible for such Draft by
renouncing her remaining intercollegiate eligibility within the period beginning at the conclusion
of her final NCAA game in the season in which she is currently competing and ending twenty-
four hours thereafter (but in no event later than three (3) hours prior to the Draft).
(d) Notwithstanding Section 1(b) above, an international player is eligible to
be selected in the WNBA Draft if she will be at least 20 years old during the calendar year in
which such Draft is held.
(e) For purposes of this Section 1, an "international player" means any person
born and residing outside the United States who participates in the game of basketball as an
amateur or a professional. An international player who exercises intercollegiate basketball
eligibility in the United States shall be subject to the eligibility rules set forth in Section 1(b)(iii)
above.
(f) No player may sign a Contract or play in the WNBA unless she has been
eligible for selection in at least one (1) WNBA Draft.
(g) No player shall be eligible for selection in more than two (2) WNBA
Drafts.
Section 2. Indemnity.
The WNBA agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Players Association and
each of its respective past, present and future affiliates, agents, employees, successors, designees,
assigns, officers, directors, trustees, attorneys, members, heirs, executors, administrators, and
111requirements set forth in Sections 1(b), 1(c) or 1(d) above, including, without limitation, any
judgments, costs and settlements, provided that the WNBA is immediately notified of any such
claim in writing (and, in no event later than five (5) days from the Players Association's receipt
thereof), is given the opportunity to assume the defense thereof, and the Players Association uses
its best efforts to defend such claim, and does not admit liability with respect to and does not
settle such claim without prior written consent of the WNBA.
Section 3. Term and Timing of WNBA Draft Provisions.
A WNBA Draft will be held prior to the commencement of each WNBA Season
covered by the term of this Agreement. Each such Draft will be held prior to the May 15
preceding the commencement of the WNBA Season on a date to be designated by the
Commissioner.
Section 4. Number of Choices.
The WNBA Draft shall consist of three (3) rounds, with each round consisting of
the same number of selections as there will be Teams in the WNBA the following Season;
provided, however, that the WNBA, within its discretion, may add one additional selection to
each round of any Draft immediately prior to an Expansion Team's first Season of operation (or
more than one selection if multiple Expansion Teams are beginning operations in the same
Season, it being understood that the number of additional selections in each round of any Draft
will not exceed the number of Expansion Teams to begin operations in the immediately
succeeding Season) to be exercised (or assigned) by such Expansion Team(s).
112(a) A Team that drafts a player, during the period from the date of such
WNBA Draft (hereinafter the "Initial Draft") to the date of the next Draft (hereinafter the
"Subsequent Draft"), shall be the only Team with which such player may negotiate or sign a
Player Contract, provided that, within seven (7) days following the Initial Draft, such Team has
made a Required Tender to such player. If a Team has made a Required Tender to such player
and the player has not signed a Player Contract within the period between the Initial Draft and
the Subsequent Draft, the Team that drafts the player shall lose its exclusive right to negotiate
with the player and the player will then be eligible for selection in the Subsequent Draft.
(b) A Team that, in the Subsequent Draft, drafts a player who (i) was drafted
in the Initial Draft, (ii) received a Required Tender from the Team that drafted her in the Initial
Draft, and (iii) did not sign a Player Contract with such first Team prior to the Subsequent Draft,
shall be, during the period from the date of the Subsequent Draft to the date of the next WNBA
Draft, the only Team with which such player may negotiate or sign a Player Contract, provided
such Team has made a Required Tender. If such player has not signed a Player Contract within
the period between the Subsequent Draft and the next WNBA Draft with the Team that drafted
her in the Subsequent Draft, that Team shall lose its exclusive right, which it obtained in the
Subsequent Draft, to negotiate with the player, and the player will become a Rookie Free Agent
as of the date of the next WNBA Draft.
(c) If a player is drafted in an Initial Draft and (i) receives a Required Tender,
(ii) does not sign a Player Contract with a Team prior to the Subsequent Draft, and (iii) is not
drafted by any Team in such Subsequent Draft, the player will become a Rookie Free Agent
immediately upon the conclusion of the Subsequent Draft.
113that Team does not make a Required Tender to such player, the player will become a Rookie
Free Agent on the eighth (8th) day following such Draft.
(e) A Team may at any time withdraw a Required Tender that it has made to a
player, provided that the player agrees in writing to the withdrawal. In the event that a Required
Tender is withdrawn, the player shall thereupon become a Rookie Free Agent.
(f) A Team that holds the exclusive rights to negotiate with and sign a drafted
player may at any time renounce such exclusive rights, except that, if the Team has made a
Required Tender to the player, a renunciation shall not be permitted during the time the player
has been given to accept the Required Tender. In order to renounce its exclusive rights with
respect to a drafted player, a Team shall provide the WNBA with an express, written statement
renouncing such exclusive rights. The WNBA shall provide a copy of such statement to the
Players Association within three (3) business days following its receipt thereof.
Section 6. Effect of Contracts with Other Professional Teams.
If a player is drafted by a Team in either an Initial or Subsequent Draft and,
during a period in which she may negotiate and sign a Player Contract with only the Team that
drafted her, either (i) is a party to a previously existing player contract with a professional
basketball team not in the WNBA, or (ii) signs such a player contract, then the following rules
will apply:
(a) Subject to subsection (b) below, the Team that drafts the player shall
retain the exclusive WNBA rights to negotiate with and sign her for the period ending one year
from the date the player notifies such Team that she is immediately available to sign a Player
Contract with such Team that covers the then-current or (if the notice is provided between
114until the player is under no contractual or other legal impediment to sign and play with such
Team during such Season.
(b) If, by February 1 of any year, the player notifies the Team that has drafted
her that by April 1 of such year she will be under no contractual or other legal impediment to
sign and play with such Team, and provided that on such April 1 the player is in fact under no
such contractual or other legal impediment, then, in order to retain the exclusive WNBA rights to
negotiate with and sign the player as provided in subsection (a), such Team must make a
Required Tender to the player by April 5 of such year.
(c) If the player gives the required notice by February 1 of any year, and the
Team that drafted her fails to make a Required Tender by April 5 of such year, the player shall
thereupon become a Rookie Free Agent.
(d) If, during the one-year period of exclusive WNBA negotiating rights set
forth in subsection (a) above, the player signs another, or remains subject to a, player contract
with a professional basketball team not in the WNBA and (i) the player has not made a bona fide
effort to negotiate a Player Contract with the Team possessing her exclusive WNBA rights or (ii)
such bona fide effort is made and such Team makes a Required Tender to such player in
accordance with subsection (b) above, then such Team shall retain the exclusive WNBA rights to
negotiate with and sign the player for additional one-year periods as measured in and in
accordance with subsection (a).
(e) If, during the one-year period of exclusive WNBA negotiating rights set
forth in subsection (a) above, the player signs another player contract with a professional
basketball team not in the WNBA and (i) the player has made a bona fide effort to negotiate a
115to make a Required Tender to such player in accordance with subsection (b) above, then the
player shall thereupon become a Rookie Free Agent.
(f) If, during the one-year period of exclusive WNBA negotiating rights set
forth in subsection (a) above, the Team makes or has made a Required Tender to the player and
the player does not sign a player contract with any professional basketball team, then (i) in the
case of a player who was previously drafted in an Initial Draft, the next WNBA Draft following
such one-year period shall be deemed the Subsequent Draft as to such player, and the rules
applicable to a player who is subject to a Subsequent Draft will apply, or (ii) in the case of a
player who was previously drafted in a Subsequent Draft, such player shall become a Rookie
Free Agent at the end of such one-year period.
(g) Notice under this Section 6 shall be provided in writing by personal
delivery or prepaid certified, registered, or overnight mail sent to the Team's principal address or
principal office (as then listed in the WNBA's records), to the attention of the Team's general
manager. For purposes of this Section 6, a "professional basketball team" shall mean any team
in any country that pays money or compensation of any kind (in excess of a stipend for living
expenses) to a basketball player for rendering services for such team.
Section 7. Application to Players Who Renounce Intercollegiate Eligibility Prior to
Being Drafted or Regain Intercollegiate Eligibility after Being Drafted.
If a person (i) becomes eligible for the WNBA Draft by renouncing her
intercollegiate eligibility pursuant to Section 1(b) above or (ii) regains intercollegiate eligibility
after her eligibility had expired or had been terminated, and such person is selected in the
WNBA Draft after renouncing her eligibility or prior to regaining her eligibility, the following
rules apply:
116applicable rules shall be those set forth in Sections 5 and 6 above.
(b) If the player does thereafter play intercollegiate basketball, then the Team
that drafted her shall retain the exclusive WNBA rights to negotiate with and sign the player for
the period ending one year from the date of the Draft following the date on which such player
finally exhausts or loses her intercollegiate eligibility, provided that such Team makes a
Required Tender to the player within seven (7) days of such Draft. For purposes hereof, the
Draft following the date on which the player finally exhausts or loses her intercollegiate
eligibility will be deemed the Initial Draft as to that player and, at that point, the applicable rules
with respect to such player shall be those set forth in Sections 5 and 6 above.
Section 8. Assignment of Draft Rights.
In the event that the exclusive right to negotiate with a player obtained in any
WNBA Draft is assigned by a Team to another Team, in accordance with WNBA procedures,
the Team to which such right has been assigned shall have the same, but no greater, right to
negotiate with and sign such player as possessed by the Team assigning such right, and such
player shall have the same, but no greater, obligation to the Team to which such right has been
assigned as she had to the Team assigning such right.
Section 9. General.
(a) Nothing contained herein shall prevent the WNBA, in accordance with the
applicable provisions of WNBA League Rules, from prohibiting or otherwise responding to
violations by Teams of the exclusive WNBA rights obtained in any WNBA Draft, as set forth or
referred to in this Article. Other than as specifically agreed to herein, nothing contained in this
117the WNBA League Rules.
(b) Any claim by a player that a Contract offered as a Required Tender
pursuant to this Article XIII fails to meet one or more of the criteria for a Required Tender shall
be made by written notice to the Team (with copies sent to the WNBA and the Players
Association), no later than ten (10) days after the receipt of such Contract by the Players
Association. Such notice must set forth the specific changes that the player asserts must be made
to the offered Contract in order for it to constitute a Required Tender. Upon receipt of such
notice, if the requested changes are necessary to satisfy the requirements of a Required Tender,
the Team may within five (5) business days offer the player an amended Contract incorporating
the requested changes. If the Team offers such an amended Contract, the player shall be
precluded from asserting that such Contract does not constitute a timely and valid Required
Tender.
(c) A player who knows or reasonably should have known that she has a
physical disability or other condition (including pregnancy) that reasonably would be expected to
render her physically unable to perform the playing services required under a Player Contract the
following season may not validly accept a Required Tender made under this Article XIII, unless
the Team consents after disclosure of such physical disability or other condition. If, after
receiving written notice of such disability or other condition (and, at the election of the Team, a
physical examination of the player to confirm such disability or other condition), the Team
desires to withdraw the Required Tender, such player will remain subject to the Team's
exclusive negotiating rights.
118desire to become eligible to be selected in the next WNBA Draft pursuant to Section 1(b) above
shall be entitled to withdraw from such Draft by providing written notice that is received by the
WNBA five (5) days prior to such Draft.
119