PLAYER PROGRAMS
Section 1. Mandatory Programs.
WNBA players shall be required to attend and participate in educational programs
designated as "Mandatory Programs" by the WNBA and the Players Association. Such
Mandatory Programs shall include a Rookie orientation program and such other programs (e.g.,
financial literacy, diversity and inclusion) as the WNBA and the Players Association may agree
upon. During the term of this Agreement, all such programs shall be administered by the
WNBA, which shall, however, consult with the Players Association concerning the structure and
content thereof.
Section 2. NBA G League Jobs Database.
The WNBA shall make available access to an existing database of NBA G
League, and NBA G League team, job openings to current and former players who have
expressed interest in such positions. In the event that the database ceases to exist for any reason,
the obligation in this Section 2 shall terminate.
Section 3. Offseason Employment.
With respect to the Off-Season following the 2020 Season, the WNBA will use
reasonable efforts to secure thirty (30) job opportunities (each, an "Off-Season Employment
Opportunity" and, collectively, the "Off-Season Employment Threshold") with, for example,
League partners, League sponsors and teams in leagues other than the WNBA; provided that,
with respect to any Off-Season (for the purposes of this Section 3, "Off-Season One") for which
the WNBA meets, and players accept fewer Off-Season Employment Opportunities than, the
Off-Season Employment Threshold, the Off-Season Employment Threshold for the next Off-
Season shall be reduced to reflect the number of Off-Season Employment Opportunities players
191necessary, with respect to each Off-Season hereunder. With respect to each Off-Season
following the 2023 Season, the WNBA shall use best efforts to secure ten (10) Off-Season
Employment Opportunities (or, if fewer than ten (10), the number of Off-Season Employment
Opportunities that comprise the then-current Off-Season Employment Threshold) at an average
salary of \$25,000; and shall use reasonable efforts to secure the number of Off-Season
Employment Opportunities, if any, that comprise the balance of the then-current Off-Season
Employment Threshold. The WNBA shall offer Off-Season Employment Opportunities to
players under Contract for the relevant Off-Season at the time the offer is made. The WNBA
shall encourage (i) Teams located in cities where players' Off-Season Employment
Opportunities are located to make available their playing or practice facilities to such players
during the terms of their Off-Season Employment Opportunities; and (ii) employers providing
Off-Season Employment Opportunities to include access to, or reimbursement for, workout
facilities as part of the terms of such Off-Season Employment Opportunities. Such employers
also shall be permitted to provide housing to players as part of the terms of their Off-Season
Employment Opportunities.
192