 ARTICLE XXXIV
MARKETING AND PROMOTIONAL AGREEMENTS
Section 1. WNBA Marketing and Promotional Agreements.
The WNBA and any player may enter into a WNBA Marketing and Promotional
Agreement, provided that such Marketing and Promotional Agreement will terminate (and all
WNBA and player obligations thereunder will cease) upon the termination of such player's
Standard Player Contract. The particular marketing and promotional services, the Additional
Marketing and Promotional Compensation, and the payment schedule applicable to such
compensation shall be specified in such WNBA Marketing and Promotional Agreement. The
WNBA shall spend an aggregate of at least one million dollars (\$1,000,000) plus any additional
amounts as set forth in Article XII, Section 1(a)(ii) (the "WNBA Marketing Minimum") on
WNBA Marketing and Promotional Agreements during each Marketing Period hereunder. Such
WNBA Marketing and Promotional Agreements shall be with players chosen, and at amounts
determined, within the sole discretion of the WNBA (provided that no WNBA Marketing and
Promotional Agreement shall provide for compensation in excess of two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars (\$250,000) per Marketing Period) and shall cover services to be performed
beginning on the day following the last game of such Season and continuing through the last
game of the following Season (each, a "Marketing Period;" e.g., the 2020 Marketing Period shall
commence on the day after the last game of the 2020 Finals and end on the day of the last game
of the 2021 Finals). The WNBA and any player may also agree, on a case-by-case basis, to a
WNBA sponsor's use of such player's Player Attributes individually and/or the player's
participation in content creation and social media distribution on behalf of such sponsor, in
exchange for compensation mutually agreed between the WNBA and such player. The amount
of such compensation shall count towards the WNBA Marketing Minimum for the relevant
Marketing Period. In the event that that the WNBA does not spend the WNBA Marketing
Minimum in any Marketing Period hereunder, the shortfall amount shall be added to the WNBA
Marketing Minimum in the following Marketing Period and any or all of such shortfall that
remains at the conclusion of such subsequent Marketing Period shall be added to the next
Marketing Period (the "Third Marketing Period"). If, at the end of the Third Marketing Period
(or, if sooner, upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement), any or all of such shortfall
remains, the WNBA shall be obligated to pay it to all WNBA players who were on a WNBA
roster during the Regular Season covered by the Third Marketing Period. Any such shortfall
obligation shall be effectuated and satisfied solely by the WNBA paying such shortfall to Teams
no later than sixty (60) days following the end of the Third Marketing Period and causing the
Teams to distribute the shortfall as soon as practicable to such players on such proportional basis
as may be reasonably determined by the Players Association, less all amounts required to be
withheld by any governmental authority. The Players Association shall provide the WNBA with
its proposed per-player distribution of any such shortfall within thirty (30) days after the end of
the Third Marketing Period.
Section 2. Team Marketing and Promotional Agreements.
A Team and any player under a Player Contract with such Team may enter into a
Team Marketing and Promotional Agreement, provided that: (i) the term of such Team
Marketing and Promotional Agreement may not extend beyond the term of such player's
Standard Player Contract, and (ii) such Marketing and Promotional Agreement will terminate
(and all Team and player obligations thereunder will cease) upon the termination of such player's
Standard Player Contract or the assignment of such player to a new Team. The particular
marketing and promotional services, the Additional Marketing and Promotional Compensation,
and the payment schedule applicable to such compensation shall be specified in such Team
Marketing and Promotional Agreement. A Team may include access to its own playing or
practice facilities or third-party workout facilities (or reimbursement for such facilities) as part of
the terms of any Team Marketing and Promotional Agreement. The maximum amount that any
Team can pay to its players in aggregate during each of the 2020 through 2022 Marketing
Periods is one hundred thousand dollars (\$100,000), and the maximum amount that any Team
can pay to its players in aggregate during each of the 2023 through 2027 Marketing Periods is
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars (\$150,000) (each, the "Team Marketing Maximum");
provided that any compensation earned by a player under a Diversity in Coaching Initiative
Employment Arrangement (as defined in Article XV, Section 3) with a Team Affiliate shall not
count towards the Team Marketing Maximum of the affiliated Team. No player may be paid at a
rate of more than four thousand dollars (\$4,000) per week during the period she is in the Team
market and providing services pursuant to a Team Marketing and Promotional Agreement. The
minimum amount that any Team must pay to its players in aggregate during each Marketing
Period beginning with the 2021 Marketing Period is fifty thousand dollars (\$50,000) (the "Team
Marketing Minimum"). With respect to the Team Marketing Minimum: (i) any compensation
earned by a player under a Player Contract with the Team in connection with an Off-Season
Employment Opportunity shall count toward the Team Marketing Minimum during the relevant
Marketing Period; (ii) any compensation earned by a player under a Diversity in Coaching
Initiative Employment Arrangement with a Team Affiliate shall count toward the Team
Marketing Minimum of the affiliated Team during the relevant Marketing Period; (iii) any
compensation earned by a player pursuant to a Team Marketing and Promotional Agreement for
a Marketing Period during which she also receives compensation from a WNBA Marketing and
Promotional Agreement shall not count toward the Team Marketing Minimum during the
relevant Marketing Period; and (iv) the value of any housing or workout-facility access received
by the player shall not count toward the Team Marketing Minimum. In the event that any Team
does not satisfy the Team Marketing Minimum in any Marketing Period beginning with the 2021
Marketing Period, the shortfall amount shall be added to the Team Marketing Minimum in the
following Marketing Period and any or all of such shortfall that remains at the conclusion of such
subsequent Marketing Period shall be added to the Third Marketing Period. If, at the end of the
Third Marketing Period (or, if sooner, upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement), any
or all of such shortfall remains, the WNBA shall cause such Team to make payments equal to the
shortfall to be disbursed to the players on such Team roster during the Regular Season covered
by the Third Marketing Period no later than sixty (60) days following the end of the Third
Marketing Period and on such proportional basis as may be reasonably determined by the Players
Association, less all amounts required to be withheld by any governmental authority. The
Players Association shall provide the WNBA with its proposed per-player distribution of any
such shortfall within thirty (30) days after the end of the Third Marketing Period.
Section 3. Binding Effect.
No agreement concerning additional marketing rights and obligations shall be
binding upon the player or the WNBA or a Team until a Marketing and Promotional Agreement
embodying such rights and obligations has been duly executed by the parties, and neither the
WNBA nor the Players Association shall contend to the contrary.
Section 4. Reporting.
The WNBA shall provide to the Players Association complete copies of all new
WNBA and Team Marketing and Promotional Agreements on a weekly basis.
