OTHER
Section 1. No Ownership Interest.
No WNBA player shall either directly or indirectly hold any ownership interest in
the WNBA or any WNBA Team. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the WNBA will consider, at
some appropriate point in the future, discussions that could potentially lead to the possibility of
players being provided with a limited opportunity to invest in the WNBA. Nothing herein shall
obligate the WNBA in any way to permit player investment or ownership (directly or indirectly)
in the WNBA or any WNBA Team, and the potential waiver or modification of the first sentence
in this Section 1 shall be within the sole discretion of the WNBA.
Section 2. Playing Rules and Officiating.
(a) Up to three (3) representatives of the Players Association, two (2) of
whom shall be active or recently retired players selected by the Players Association, shall be
permitted to attend the meetings of the WNBA Competition Committee with respect to issues
relating to the WNBA playing rules and officiating. The representatives of the Players
Association shall collectively have one (1) vote (the same number as the representatives of a
Team collectively) with respect to any recommendations regarding playing rules and officiating.
(b) Upon a request from the Players Association, representatives of the
WNBA Basketball Operations and Referee Operations Departments shall meet (no more
frequently than annually) with the Player Association and/or players to discuss issues relating to
WNBA playing rules and officiating. The WNBA may request that representatives from the
National Basketball Referees Association, including current referees, attend any such meeting.
231The League shall provide to each player selected as an All Star and playing in any
All-Star Game held during a Season (a) one (1) first-class roundtrip flight, if available on the
League-chosen flights (or standard commercial carrier flights selected by the player with similar
arrival times) at the time of booking, (b) hotel accommodations for the days during which such
players are providing services to the League in connection with their participation in such All-
Star Game and (c) four (4) complimentary tickets in the lower bowl of the arena for such All-
Star game and any skills competitions.
Section 4. Inspection Rights.
On or before the March 15 immediately preceding any Season, the Players
Association may notify the WNBA that it wishes to have one or more of its employees conduct
an inspection of any Team practice or playing facilities, which inspection must be completed
prior to the immediately succeeding April 1 at a reasonable time mutually agreed between the
Players Association and the applicable WNBA Team. The parties agree to engage in reasonable
discussions with respect to any issues with such Team practice or playing facilities that arise as a
result of such inspection.
Section 5. Implementation of Agreement.
(a) The WNBA and the Players Association will use their respective best
efforts and take all reasonable steps to have WNBA Teams and players comply with the terms
and provisions of this Agreement.
(b) The WNBA and the Players Association shall use their respective best
efforts and take all reasonable steps to cooperate and defend the enforceability of this Agreement
against any challenge thereto.
232STANDARD PLAYER CONTRACT
Women's National Basketball Association
Standard Player Contract
The parties to this Contract are ____________________________ (the "Team"),
a member of the Women's National Basketball Association (the "WNBA" or "League"), and
_____________________________________ (the "Player").
The Team wishes to employ Player, and Player wishes to serve, as a skilled
basketball player for the Team, subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract.
The parties agree as follows:
1. Term of Contract
The term of this Contract shall commence on __________ ____, _____ and end
on May 15, _____ (or, if earlier, the first day of training camp following the final Season covered
hereunder).
2. Player Services
(a) During the term of this Contract, the Player shall: (i) attend and play all
games in which the Team is scheduled to play (including pre-season, Regular Season, and
playoff games); (ii) attend and participate in all practices, training and conditioning sessions,
shoot-arounds, and meetings scheduled by the Team during the Season; (iii) attend and play, if
selected, in the WNBA's All-Star Game and in associated games and skills competitions and
every event conducted in association with such All-Star Game (including, but not limited to, a
reasonable number of media sessions); (iv) attend and play, if invited (and if such attendance is
required pursuant to Article XIX of the Collective Bargaining Agreement currently in effect
between the WNBA and the Women's National Basketball Players Association ("WNBPA")
Exhibit 1 - 234(v) attend and participate in any mandatory programs scheduled by the WNBA in accordance
with the CBA; (vi) serve as a spokesperson for and promote the Team, the WNBA and the sport
of basketball and devote reasonable time to the performance of such duties; (vii) cooperate with
all reasonable requests of the news media and, upon the request of the Team or the WNBA,
consent to and make herself available for interviews conducted at reasonable times, including
interviews before, during or after WNBA Competitions (whether in specially designated
interview rooms, interview areas or elsewhere), and for interviews conducted during off-days or
during the Off-Season (it being understood that any interviews conducted during the Off-Season
shall be conducted at times mutually agreeable to the player and the Team or WNBA); and (viii)
upon the reasonable request of the Team, the WNBA, or a League-Related Entity, consent to the
wearing of a wireless microphone during games and/or practices (and the broadcast of such
recording).
(b) The Player shall perform her duties and responsibilities at such place or
places and at such times as may be reasonably designated by the Team or WNBA consistent with
the terms of the CBA.
3. Compensation
(a) As full compensation for her services under this Contract and the rights
granted to the Team and the WNBA under this Contract, the Player shall receive the Base Salary
set forth in Exhibit 1, which shall be payable in U.S. dollars in equal, semi-monthly installments
beginning on or about June 1 (but in no event more than two weeks after the start of the Regular
Season) and ending on or about September 15.
Exhibit 1 - 235individual and/or Team performance) during the term of the CBA in accordance with Article IX
of the CBA as well as any bonus, if applicable, contained in Exhibit 8 and/or Exhibit 9.
4. Termination
This Contract is subject to the termination provisions provided for in Article V,
Section 6 of the CBA.
5. Promotional Appearances
The Player will make herself available for the promotional appearances required
under Article XXIV of the CBA.
6. Licensing and Marketing
(a) The Player hereby grants to WNBA Enterprises the right to use her Player
Attributes in the manner set forth in Article XXVI of the CBA and in the agreement between
WNBA Enterprises and the WNBPA, made as of January 17, 2020 (the "License Agreement"), a
copy of which will, upon her request, be furnished to the player. The player agrees to adhere to
the terms of Article XXVI of the CBA and of the License Agreement.
(b) The Player agrees that the WNBA, WNBA Enterprises, and/or the Team
may use the Player's name, nickname, and/or the Player's Player Attributes as such Player
Attributes may be captured in game action footage or photographs, in any advertising, marketing
or collateral materials or public service or marketing programs conducted by the WNBA, WNBA
Enterprises or the Team that, without regard to whether such use includes sponsor identification,
is intended to (i) promote (x) the Team, the WNBA, players and/or the sport of basketball, (y)
any game or competition in which the Team or a group of players participates or (z) any telecast
or broadcast of such game or competition and/or (ii) further the development, popularity or
Exhibit 1 - 236basketball clinics, "grass roots" programs and similar activities). WNBA Enterprises, the
WNBA or the Team shall be entitled to use the Player's Player Attributes individually pursuant
to the preceding sentence and shall not be required to use the Player's Player Attributes in a
group or as one of multiple players; provided, however, that no such use made by WNBA
Enterprises, the WNBA or the Team shall constitute an endorsement or testimonial by the Player
of any product or service.
(c) The Player agrees that WNBA Enterprises, the WNBA and/or the Team
shall have the right to take and use her Pictures in accordance with the provisions of Article
XXVI of the CBA.
(d) The Player hereby assigns to the WNBPA and its licensing affiliates, if
any, the exclusive right to use and to grant to persons, firms, or corporations (collectively
"WNBPA licensees") the right to use her Player Attributes in group licensing programs. Group
licensing programs are defined as those licensing programs in which a WNBPA licensee utilizes
a total of four (4) or more WNBA player images on products that are sold at retail or used as
promotional or premium items. The Player retains the right to grant permission to a licensee to
utilize her image if that licensee is not concurrently utilizing the images of three (3) or more
other WNBA players on products that are sold at retail or are used as promotional or premium
items. If the Player's inclusion in a particular WNBPA group licensing program is precluded by
an individual exclusive endorsement agreement, and the Player provides the WNBPA with
timely written notice of that preclusion, the WNBPA will exclude the Player from that particular
program. In consideration for this assignment of rights, the WNBPA will use the revenues it
receives from group licensing programs to support the objectives as set forth in the By-laws or
Exhibit 1 - 237Player Attributes in group licensing programs, to provide group licensing opportunities to all
WNBA players, and to ensure that no entity utilizes the group licensing rights granted to the
WNBPA without first obtaining a license from the WNBPA. The assignment in this paragraph
shall expire on December 31 of the later of (a) the third year following the execution of this
contract, or (b) the year in which this contract expires. Neither the Team nor the WNBA is a
party to the terms of this paragraph, which is included herein solely for the administrative
convenience and benefit of the Player and the Players Association, and any breach of this
paragraph by the Player or the Players Association shall not affect the contractual relationship
between the Team and the Player. The WNBPA shall indemnify and hold harmless the Team,
the WNBA, and WNBA Enterprises and its or their respective owners, directors, officers, agents,
affiliates, successors, assigns and licensees from and against all liability and costs (including
attorneys' fees) arising out of any alleged breach of this paragraph 6(d), any WNBPA group
licensing program or the acts and omissions of WNBPA licensees. The terms of this
subparagraph apply unless, at the time of execution of this contract, the Player indicates by
striking out this subparagraph (d) and marking her initials adjacent to the stricken language
indicating her intention to not participate in any WNBPA group licensing program. Nothing in
this subparagraph shall be construed to supersede, or otherwise alter in any way whatsoever the
rights of the Team, WNBA Enterprises and the WNBA pursuant to this Contract, License
Agreement or Article XXVI of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Exhibit 1 - 238The Player represents, warrants, covenants and agrees as follows:
(a) that she is not obligated to play basketball in or for any entity other than
the Team during any WNBA Season during the term of this Contract (including any Option
Year);
(b) that she is free to enter into and perform this Contract in accordance with
its terms and, by doing so, she is not (and will not) violate any other agreement to which she is a
party or by which she is bound;
(c) that as of the date of her execution of this Contract she is physically able
to perform the services hereunder, and is not aware of any condition that may result in her
becoming physically unable to perform the services hereunder (or, if she is not physically able to
perform the services hereunder or is aware of a condition that may result in her becoming
physically unable to perform the services hereunder, she has disclosed the foregoing to the
Team); and
(d) that she has disclosed and submitted all sponsorship, endorsement and
licensing agreements (including all agreements with respect to footwear with any financial terms
redacted) to which she is a party in existence as of the date of her execution of this Contract and
that copies of all such pre-existing agreements are attached to Exhibit 6 of this Contract.
8. WNBA Anti-Drug Program
The Player agrees to adhere to the requirements of the WNBA Anti-Drug
Program set forth in Article XXI of the CBA, and recognizes that failure to adhere to those
requirements may result in discipline, including fines and/or suspensions. The Player
acknowledges that this Contract may be terminated in accordance with the express provisions of
Exhibit 1 - 239dismissal and disqualification from any employment by the WNBA and any or its teams.
Notwithstanding any terms or provisions of the Contract (including any amendment hereto), in
the event of such termination, all obligations of the Team, including obligations to pay Base
Salary, shall cease, except the obligation of the Team to pay the Player's earned Base Salary to
the date of termination.
9. Conduct
The Player agrees to adhere to the requirements set forth in Article XIV of the
CBA, and recognizes that the failure to adhere to those requirements may result in reasonable
discipline.
10. Hazardous Activity and Other Sports
The Player and the Team acknowledge and agree that the Player's participation in
other sports or hazardous activities may impair or destroy her ability and skill as a basketball
player. Accordingly, the Player agrees that she will not, without the written consent of the Team,
engage in any sport or activity that a reasonable person would recognize as involving or
exposing the participant to a substantial risk of bodily injury (including, but not limited to,
motorcycling, auto racing, sky-diving, bungee-jumping, hang-gliding, in-line skating, skiing,
boxing, wrestling, football, soccer, baseball, field or ice hockey, or lacrosse). Nothing contained
in this Contract shall require the Player to obtain the written consent of the Team in order to
participate in the sport of basketball in accordance with Article XVIII of the CBA or, as an
amateur, in the sport of golf, tennis, handball, swimming, weight training, aerobics, distance
running, hiking, biking, softball or volleyball, and other similar sports that a reasonable person
Exhibit 1 - 240injury.
11. Release
The Player hereby releases and waives every claim she may have, or that may
arise, against the Team, the WNBA, every other WNBA Team, and all of their related entities,
against all of their respective directors, officers, owners, stockholders, trustees, partners,
employees, successors and assigns (excluding persons employed as players by a WNBA Team)
and their related entities, against any person retained by the WNBA and/or the Players
Association in connection with the Anti-Drug Program, and against the Arbitrator and any other
arbitrator or expert retained by the WNBA and/or the Players Association under the terms of the
CBA, howsoever caused or arising and whether or not by negligence, arising out of or in
connection with (i) any injury that is subject to the provisions of Article XX of the CBA, (ii) any
fighting or other form of violent and/or unsportsmanlike conduct occurring during the course of
any practice and/or any pre-season, Regular Season, and/or playoff game (on or adjacent to the
playing floor or in or adjacent to any facility used for practices or games) or during the Player's
performance of any of the services under this Contract, (iii) the testing procedures or the
imposition of any penalties set forth in paragraph 8 hereof and in the Anti-Drug Program, or
(iv) any injury suffered in the course of her employment as to which she has or would have a
claim for workers' compensation benefits. The foregoing shall not apply to any claim of medical
malpractice against a physician or other medical personnel.
12. Unique Skills
The Player represents and agrees that she has extraordinary and unique skill and
ability as a basketball player, that the services to be rendered by her under this Contract cannot
Exhibit 1 - 241breach by the Player of this Agreement will cause irreparable injury to the Team and its
assignees and the WNBA. Therefore, if it is alleged by the Team that the Player: (i) is playing,
attempting or threatening to play, or negotiating for the purpose of playing basketball for any
person, firm or organization other than the Team (a "Third Party") during any WNBA Season
during the term of this Contract; (ii) negotiating or attempting to negotiate an agreement that
would preclude the Player from playing for the Team during any WNBA Season during the term
of this Contract; or (iii) has agreed or has entered into an agreement that would preclude the
Player from playing for the Team during any WNBA Season during the term of this Contract,
then, in each case, the Team and its assignees or the WNBA (in addition to any other remedies
that may be available to them under this Contract or applicable law) shall have the right to obtain
from any court or arbitrator having jurisdiction such equitable relief as may be appropriate,
including a decree enjoining the Player from playing basketball for any Third Party during any
WNBA Season during the term of this Contract. In any suit, action, or arbitration proceeding
brought to obtain such relief, the Player hereby waives her right, if any, to trial by jury, and, to
the extent permitted by applicable law, waives her right, if any, to interpose any counterclaim or
set-off for any cause whatsoever.
13. Dispute Resolution
In the event of any dispute arising between the Player and the WNBA or the
Team relating to any matter arising under this Contract, or concerning the performance or
interpretation thereof (except for a dispute arising under paragraph 12 hereof) such dispute shall
be resolved in accordance with the grievance and arbitration or dispute resolution procedures set
forth in the CBA.
Exhibit 1 - 242(a) This Contract shall be valid and binding upon the Team and the Player
immediately upon its execution.
(b) The Team agrees to file a copy of this Contract, and/or any amendment(s)
thereto, with the Commissioner as soon as practicable by email and overnight mail, but in no
event may such filing be made more than forty-eight (48) hours after the execution of this
Contract and/or amendment(s).
(c) If pursuant to league rules or the WNBA/WNBPA Collective Bargaining
Agreement, the Commissioner disapproves this Contract (or amendment) within ten (10) days
after the receipt of a complete copy thereof in her office by overnight mail, this Contract (or
amendment) shall thereupon terminate and be of no further force or effect and the Team and the
Player shall thereupon be relieved of their respective rights and liabilities thereunder. If the
Commissioner's disapproval is subsequently overturned in any proceeding brought under the
arbitration provisions of the WNBA/WNBPA Collective Bargaining Agreement (including any
appeals), the Contract shall again be valid and binding upon the Team and the Player, and the
Commissioner shall be afforded another ten-day period to disapprove the Contract (based on the
Team's Room at the time the Commissioner's disapproval is overturned) as set forth in the
foregoing sentence. The WNBA will promptly inform the Players Association if the
Commissioner disapproves this Contract.
15. Assignment
The Team shall have the right to assign this Contract to any other WNBA team
and the Player agrees to accept such assignment and to faithfully perform and carry out this
Exhibit 1 - 243assignee team instead of with the Team.
16. General Matters
(a) With the exception of any Team Marketing and Promotional Agreement,
this Contract (including any Exhibits hereto) contains the entire agreement between the parties
and, except as provided in the WNBA/WNBPA Collective Bargaining Agreement, sets forth all
components of the Player's compensation from the Team or any Team Affiliate, and there are no
other agreements or transactions of any kind (whether disclosed or undisclosed to the WNBA),
express or implied, oral or written, or promises, undertakings, representations, commitments,
inducements, assurances of intent, or understandings of any kind (whether disclosed or
undisclosed to the WNBA): (i) concerning any future Extension or other amendment of this
Contract or the entry into any new Player Contract, or (ii) involving compensation or
consideration of any kind (including, without limitation, an investment or business opportunity)
to be paid, furnished, or made available to the Player, or any person or entity controlled by,
related to, or acting with authority on behalf of the Player, by the Team or any Team Affiliate.
(b) The Parties agree and acknowledge that this Contract is subject to all of
the CBA's terms and provisions, and that all capitalized terms that are not otherwise defined in
this Contract shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set forth in Article I of the CBA.
Exhibit 1 - 244EXHIBITS CAREFULLY BEFORE SIGNING
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:
The Player:
Signature:
Full Name (print):
Street Address:
City, State and Zip Code:
Social Security No.:
Telephone No.:
Email Address: _______________________
The Team:
By:
Title:
Exhibit 1 - 245(To be completed only if Player was represented by an agent who negotiated the terms of this
Contract.)
I, the undersigned, having negotiated this Contract on behalf of __________________________,
do hereby swear and certify, under penalties of perjury, that the terms of Paragraph 16(a) of this
Contract are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
________________________________
Player Representative
________________________________
Print or Type Name of Player Representative
State of ____________
County of __________
On __________________, before me personally came _______________________ and
acknowledged to me that she/he had executed the foregoing Agent Certification.
____________________________________
Notary Public
Exhibit 1 - 246Exhibit 1 — Base Salary
Player:
Date:
Season Base Salary
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 247Exhibit 2 — Base Salary Protection
Player:
Date:
Season Type of Protection Amount of Protection Additional Conditions or Limitations
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 248Exhibit 3 — Prior Injury Exclusion
Player:
Date:
The Player's right to receive her Base Salary as set forth in Article V, Sections 6(a)(i) and
6(c) of the CBA or otherwise is limited or eliminated with respect to the following reinjury of the
injury or aggravation of the condition set forth below:
Describe injury or condition:
Describe extent to which liability for Base Salary is limited or eliminated:
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 249Exhibit 4 — Rookie Option
The Team shall have the option to extend the term of this Contract for one (1)
twelve (12) month period beyond its initial term. Such option shall be exercisable by the Team,
in its sole discretion, by written notice to the Player or her representative on or before the May
15 following the second WNBA Season covered by this Contract. If the Team decides to
exercise the option pursuant to this Exhibit 4, the terms and conditions of the Contract for the
Option Year will be the same as those for the third year of the Contract, except that the Base
Salary paid to the Player for the Option Year (x) shall be increased by an amount equal to fifteen
percent (15%) of the Player's Base Salary for the second year of the Contract above the Player's
Base Salary for the third year of the Contract and (y) shall be fully protected for lack of skill and
injury or illness upon the Team's exercise of the option. The exercise of this option by the Team
shall in no way guarantee that the Player will make the Team during the Option Year.
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 250Exhibit 5 – Physical Exam
Player:
Team:
Date:
The Player and the Team agree that this Contract will be invalid and of no further force
and effect unless the Player passes, in the sole discretion of a physician designated by the Team,
a physical examination conducted in accordance with Article V, Section 14(i) of the CBA that is
(i) conducted within three (3) business days of the execution of this Contract, and (ii) the results
of which are reported by the Team to the Player within six (6) business days of the execution of
this Contract. The Player agrees to supply complete and truthful information in response to all
questions posed to her in connection with any such examinations (it being agreed that only
questions reasonable and medically appropriate may be posed).
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 251Exhibit 6 — Pre-existing Sponsorship, Endorsement and Licensing Agreements
Agreements with the following entities are attached to this Contract:
Exhibit 1 - 252Exhibit 7 – Sign and Trade
Player:
Team:
Date:
The Player and Team agree that this Contract will be invalid and of no force and effect
unless the Contract is traded to the [assignee team] within forty-eight (48) hours of its execution,
and all conditions to such trade are ultimately satisfied.
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 253Exhibit 8 – Time Off Bonus
Player hereby agrees not to enter into one or more contracts or obligations to Play Professional
Basketball (as that term is defined in Article V, Section 17 of the CBA) applicable to the Off-
Season following the Season(s) listed below with a duration longer than the maximum number of
days listed next to such Season(s). Any Time Off Bonus earned pursuant to this Exhibit 8 (as
determined by the player's compliance with the Time Off Bonus limitations set forth herein and
in Article V, Section 17 of the CBA) shall be paid to the player on the May 1 following the
applicable Off-Season.
Maximum # of Days Amount of
Season (Cannot be higher than 90) Time Off Bonus
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 254Exhibit 9 – Trade Payments
Player:
Team:
Date:
In the event this Contract is traded by the Team executing the Contract to another WNBA Team,
the Player shall be entitled to receive from the assignor Team, within thirty (30) days of the date
of such trade, the following payment:
Initialed:
__________ ___________
Player Team
Exhibit 1 - 255WNBA ANTI-DRUG PROGRAM
Section 1. Definitions.
As used herein the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a) "Agreement" means the Collective Bargaining Agreement entered into
between the WNBA and the Players Association on January 17, 2020.
(b) "Authorization for Testing" shall mean a notice issued by the Independent
Expert pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 below in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit A.
(c) "Come Forward Voluntarily" shall mean that a player has directly
communicated to the Medical Director her desire to enter the Program and seek treatment for a
problem involving the use of a Drug of Abuse or Marijuana. Such communication may be
facilitated by a representative of the WNBA or the Players Association (e.g., by arranging a
conference call among the player, the Medical Director, and such representative in which this
communication occurs). A player may not Come Forward Voluntarily if, prior to her direct
communication to the Medical Director, she has been notified that her most recent drug test was
positive for a Drug of Abuse or Marijuana. A player may not Come Forward Voluntarily for the
use of a SPED.
(d) "Counselors" or "Anti-Drug Counselors" shall mean the persons, if any,
selected by the Medical Director to provide counseling and other treatment to players in the
Program.
(e) "Diuretics" shall mean any of the substances listed as diuretics on Exhibit
B annexed hereto.
(f) "Drugs of Abuse" shall mean any of the substances listed as drugs of
abuse on Exhibit B annexed hereto.Abuse set forth in this Exhibit 2, and (ii) the education, treatment, and counseling program for
Drugs of Abuse established by the Medical Director (after consultation with the WNBA and the
Players Association), which may contain such elements — including, but not limited to, urine,
blood, breath, or other testing for Prohibited Substances other than SPEDs — as may be
determined by the Medical Director in his or her professional judgment.
(h) "First-Year Player" shall mean a player who is a party to a Standard
Player Contract and who, prior to the then-current Season, has not been on the roster of a WNBA
Team following the first game of a Regular Season.
(i) "HGH Blood Testing" shall mean the collection and testing of blood
samples for Human Growth Hormone.
(j) "In-Patient Facility" shall mean such treatment center or other facility as
may be selected by the Medical Director and agreed upon by the WNBA and the Players
Association.
(k) "Independent Expert" or "Expert" shall mean the person selected by the
WNBA and the Players Association in accordance with Section 2(b) below.
(l) "Marijuana Program" shall mean (i) the testing program for marijuana set
forth in this Exhibit 2, and (ii) the education, treatment, and counseling program for marijuana
established by the Medical Director (after consultation with the WNBA and the Players
Association), which program may contain such elements — including, but not limited to urine,
blood, breath, or other testing for Prohibited Substances other than SPEDs — as may be
determined by the Medical Director in his or her professional judgment.
Exhibit 2 - 257Players Association in accordance with Section 2(a) below.
(n) "Off-Season" shall mean, for any given player, the period beginning on
the day after the last game of that player's Team's Season and ending the day before the first day
of that player's Team's training camp.
(o) "Prohibited Substance" shall mean any of the substances listed on Exhibit
B annexed hereto and any other substance added to such Exhibit under the provisions of Section
15 below.
(p) "Program" shall mean this Anti-Drug Program, and shall include the
Drugs of Abuse Program, the Marijuana Program, and the SPED Program.
(q) "Prohibited Substances Committee" shall mean the committee selected by
the WNBA and the Players Association in accordance with Section 2(d) below.
(r) "SPED" shall mean any of the steroids, performance-enhancing drugs and
masking agents listed on Exhibit B annexed hereto.
(s) "SPED Program" shall mean (i) the testing program for SPEDs set forth in
this Exhibit 2, and (ii) the education, treatment, and counseling program for SPEDs established
by the Medical Director (after consultation with the WNBA and the Players Association), which
may contain such elements — including, but not limited to, urine, blood, breath or other testing
for SPEDs and Diuretics (but not for any other Prohibited Substance) — as may be determined
by the Medical Director in his or her professional judgment.
(t) "Tender" shall mean an offer of a Standard Player Contract, signed by the
Team, that is either personally delivered to the player or her representative or sent by prepaid
Exhibit 2 - 258representative.
(u) "Veteran Player" shall mean any player who is not a First-Year Player.
All other capitalized terms shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set
forth in the Agreement.
Section 2. Administration.
(a) The WNBA and the Players Association shall jointly select a Medical
Director who shall be a person experienced in the field of testing and treatment for substance
abuse. The Medical Director shall have the responsibility, among other duties, for selecting and
supervising any Counselors and other personnel necessary for the effective implementation of
the Program, for evaluating and treating players subject to the Program, and for otherwise
managing and overseeing the Program, subject to the control of the WNBA and the Players
Association.
(b) The WNBA and the Players Association shall jointly select an
Independent Expert who shall be a person experienced in the field of substance abuse detection
and enforcement and shall be authorized to issue Authorizations for Testing in accordance with
Section 5 below.
(c) The Medical Director and the Independent Expert shall each serve for the
duration of the Agreement, unless either the WNBA or the Players Association has, by March 1
of any year covered by the Agreement, served written notice of discharge upon the other party
and, as appropriate, the Medical Director and/or the Independent Expert. Such notice of
discharge shall be effective as of the immediately following March 31; provided, however, that if
the parties do not reach agreement by such March 31 as to who shall serve thereafter as the
Medical Director and/or the Independent Expert, as the case may be, each party shall, by the
Exhibit 2 - 259with that party. Such persons shall then have until the immediately following May 1 to agree on
the appointment of a new Medical Director and/or Independent Expert. Until a new Medical
Director and/or Independent Expert has been appointed, the previous Medical Director and/or
Independent Expert shall continue to serve.
(d) (i) The WNBA and the Players Association shall form a Prohibited
Substances Committee, which shall be comprised of one representative from the WNBA,
one representative from the Players Association, and three individuals jointly selected by
the WNBA and the Players Association who shall be experts in the field of testing and
treatment for drugs of abuse and performance-enhancing substances. The members of
this Committee shall serve for the duration of the Agreement, unless the WNBA and the
Players Association agree otherwise.
(ii) The members of the Prohibited Substances Committee shall meet
(either in person or by conference call) at least once each Season and once each Off-
Season (the "Annual Meetings"). The Annual Meetings shall be scheduled by the
WNBA after consultation with the Players Association. At the Annual Meetings, the
Committee shall review the Program's list of Prohibited Substances, and discuss general
anti-doping issues (including, but not limited to, advances in drug testing science and
technology, and modifications to relevant anti-doping policies of other sports
organizations). The Committee shall also make recommendations to the WNBA and
Players Association for changes to the list of Prohibited Substances (including the
determination of laboratory analysis cutoff levels).
Exhibit 2 - 260the parties to this Agreement may discharge any jointly-selected member of the
Prohibited Substances Committee by serving thirty (30) days' prior notice upon him and
upon the other party to this Agreement. In the case of such discharge, or in the event a
Committee member resigns, and if the parties are unable to agree on a replacement
Committee member within thirty (30) days, then the parties shall request a list of seven
(7) names of potential replacements prepared by the Medical Director and any remaining
jointly-selected Committee members, and, within seven (7) days, shall select the
necessary replacement by alternately striking names from the list until only one (1)
remains.
(e) Unless specifically stated otherwise herein, all costs of the Program in
excess of those covered by any insurance plan provided for players by the WNBA, including the
fees and expenses of the Medical Director, the Independent Expert, and the Prohibited
Substances Committee, and the fees and expenses incurred in conducting testing pursuant to
Sections 5, 6, 7, or 15 below shall be assumed by the WNBA.
(f) Any and all disputes arising hereunder shall be resolved in accordance
with Article XXII of the Agreement; provided, however, that in any challenge to a decision,
recommendation, or other conduct of the Medical Director, Independent Expert, or Prohibited
Substances Committee, or in any challenge to an action or process over which the Medical
Director has supervision, the Arbitrator shall apply an "arbitrary and capricious" standard of
review; and provided further that nothing in this Section 2(f) shall limit or otherwise affect
Paragraph 11 of the Standard Player Contract.
Exhibit 2 - 261(a) Other than as reasonably required in connection with the suspension or
disqualification of a player, the WNBA, WNBA Teams, and the Players Association, and all of
their members, affiliates, agents, consultants, and employees, are prohibited from publicly
disclosing information about the diagnosis, treatment, prognosis, test results, compliance, or the
fact of participation of a player in the Program ("Program Information"). If a player is
suspended or disqualified for conduct involving a Drug of Abuse, Diuretic or marijuana, the
WNBA shall not publicly disclose the particular Prohibited Substance involved, absent the
agreement of the Players Association or the prior disclosure of such information by the player (or
by a person authorized by the player to disclose such information). If a player is suspended or
disqualified for conduct involving a SPED, the particular SPED shall be publicly disclosed along
with the announcement of the applicable penalty.
(b) The Medical Director and the Counselors and all of their affiliates, agents,
consultants, and employees, are prohibited from publicly disclosing Program Information;
provided, however, that the Medical Director shall not be prohibited from disclosing such
information to the WNBA and the Players Association.
(c) The Independent Expert is prohibited from publicly disclosing any
information supplied to him or her by the WNBA or the Players Association pursuant to Section
5 below.
(d) Members of the Prohibited Substances Committee are prohibited from
publicly disclosing any information obtained by them in connection with their duties as
Committee members. If a jointly-selected member of the Committee violates this Section 3(d),
he or she shall be immediately discharged from the Committee.
Exhibit 2 - 262above, (ii) by the player, (iii) with the player's authorization, or (iv) through release by sources
other than the WNBA, WNBA Teams, the Players Association, the Medical Director, the
Counselors, the Independent Expert, or the Prohibited Substances Committee, or any of their
members, affiliates, agents, consultants, and employees, will, after such disclosure, no longer be
subject to the confidentiality provisions of this Section 3.
(f) Other than as reasonably required by the Reasonable Cause Testing
procedure set forth in Section 5 below, neither the WNBA nor the Players Association shall
divulge to any other person or entity (including their respective members, affiliates, agents,
consultants, employees, and the player and such player's Team):
(i) that it has received information regarding the use, possession, or
distribution of a Prohibited Substance by a player;
(ii) that it is considering requesting, has requested, or has had a
conference with the Independent Expert concerning the suspected use, possession, or
distribution of a Prohibited Substance by a player;
(iii) any information disclosed to the Independent Expert; or
(iv) the results of any conference with the Independent Expert.
(g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 3 (a)-(f)
above, the WNBA and the Players Association shall promptly advise and make available to each
other all information either of them may have in their possession, custody, or control that
provides cause to believe that a player is engaged in the use, possession, or distribution of a
Prohibited Substance.
Exhibit 2 - 263WNBA Team from providing to the WNBA information concerning whether a player is engaged
in the use, possession, or distribution of a Prohibited Substance. For clarity, this Section 3(h)
does not permit a Team to provide information to the WNBA in violation of Section 17(d)
below.
Section 4. Testing.
(a) Testing conducted pursuant hereto, whether by the WNBA or the Medical
Director, shall be conducted in compliance with scientifically accepted analytical techniques.
Such testing shall also comply with the collection procedures described in Exhibit C annexed
hereto (for urine collections) and such additional procedures and protocols as may be established
by the WNBA (after consultation with the Players Association) or the Medical Director (after
consultation with the WNBA and the Players Association). The WNBA (after consultation with
the Players Association) and the Medical Director (after consultation with the WNBA and the
Players Association) are each authorized to retain such consultants and support services as are
necessary and appropriate to administer and conduct such testing.
(b) If a player is selected for random drug testing pursuant to Section 6 below
on a day she is scheduled to play a game, the following additional procedures will apply: (i) any
blood testing (if implemented pursuant to Section 14 below) must occur after the game; and
(ii) for urine testing of a visiting team scheduled at game-day shoot-arounds, tests will be
scheduled to occur before the shoot-around for that team commences, and for any tests that are
not completed by the time the visiting team bus is scheduled to leave the arena or practice
facility after the shoot-around is completed, the team will provide alternate transportation to the
team hotel for any player who must remain at the arena or practice facility to complete the
Exhibit 2 - 264accompanies her or them back to the Team's hotel.
(c) All tests conducted pursuant hereto shall be analyzed by laboratories
selected by the WNBA and the Players Association, approved by the Medical Director, and
certified by the World Anti-Doping Agency, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA), or the International Olympic Committee.
(d) Any test conducted pursuant hereto will be considered "positive" for a
Prohibited Substance under the following circumstances:
(i) If the test is for a Prohibited Substance other than a SPED or
Diuretic and it is confirmed by laboratory analysis at the levels set forth in Exhibit D
annexed hereto.
(ii) If the test is for a SPED, and it is confirmed by laboratory analysis
at the levels set forth in Exhibit E annexed hereto.
(iii) If a player refuses to submit to a test or cooperate fully with the
testing process, without a reasonable explanation satisfactory to the Medical Director;
provided, however, that the WNBA will use its best efforts (A) to have the drug testing
collectors immediately notify the WNBA when any player refuses to submit to a test or
cooperate fully with the testing process, and (B) to provide such information to the
Players Association as soon as possible thereafter; and provided, further, that (C)
following any player's refusal to submit to a test or failure to cooperate fully with the
testing process, the drug testing collector shall wait ninety (90) minutes at the collection
site, and (D) if the player submits to the test and cooperates fully with the testing process
Exhibit 2 - 265excused and the test shall not be deemed positive under this Section 4(d).
(iv) If the player fails to submit to a scheduled test without a reasonable
explanation satisfactory to the Medical Director.
(v) If the player attempts to substitute, dilute, or adulterate a specimen
sample or in any other manner alter a test result (other than by testing positive for a
Diuretic).
(vi) If the test is positive for a Diuretic, and it is confirmed by
laboratory analysis at any detectable level.
(e) The WNBA shall promptly notify the Players Association of any positive
test conducted by the WNBA, and shall thereafter notify the player. The Medical Director shall
promptly notify the WNBA and the Players Association of any positive test conducted by the
Medical Director; provided, however, that if the positive test will result in a penalty to be
imposed on the player, the Medical Director shall notify the WNBA and the Players Association
of the positive test result and the WNBA shall thereafter notify the player of such result and such
penalty.
(f) Any player who is notified of a positive test pursuant to Section 4(e)
above may, within five (5) business days of such notification, inform the WNBA and the Players
Association that she requests testing of the split or "B" sample of her specimen. The test of the
"B" sample will be performed at a laboratory other than the laboratory that performed the test on
the original or "A" sample. Any such test shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 4 and
shall be sent to the laboratory for testing within ten (10) business days of the player's request.
Exhibit 2 - 266reviewed by the Medical Director. If the Medical Director determines, in his or her professional
judgment, that there is a valid alternative medical explanation for such positive test result, then
the test shall be deemed negative.
(h) If the test result for any player is reported by the laboratory as "invalid" or
"endogenous steroids abnormally low or absent," the WNBA shall promptly notify the Players
Association, and shall thereafter notify the player. In the event of such a test result, the player
shall be required to submit to another test on a date determined by the WNBA that is not more
than thirty (30) days after the date of the original test (the "Re-Test"). If the Re-Test results in
(i) a positive test for a Drug of Abuse or a positive test under Section 4(d)(iii), (iv) or (v) above,
the player shall be immediately be dismissed and disqualified from any association with the
WNBA or its Teams in accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) below; (ii) a positive test
for marijuana, the player shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Section 8 below;
(iii) a positive test for a SPED, the player shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in
Section 9 below; or (iv) a positive test for a Diuretic, the player shall be deemed to have tested
positive for a SPED and shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Section 9 below.
The original test will not be counted towards the number of tests to be administered to that player
for that Season under Section 6 (Random Testing) below.
Section 5. Reasonable Cause Testing or Hearing.
(a) In the event that either the WNBA or the Players Association has
information that gives it reasonable cause to believe that a player is engaged in the use,
possession, or distribution of a Prohibited Substance, including information that a First-Year
Player may have been engaged in such conduct during the period beginning three (3) months
prior to her entry into the WNBA, such party shall request a conference with the other party and
Exhibit 2 - 267as the Expert is available. Upon hearing the information presented, the Independent Expert shall
immediately decide whether there is reasonable cause to believe that the player in question has
been engaged in the use, possession, or distribution of a Prohibited Substance. If the
Independent Expert decides that such reasonable cause exists, the Expert shall thereupon issue an
Authorization for Testing with respect to such player in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
(b) In evaluating the information presented to him or her, the Independent
Expert shall use his or her independent judgment based upon his or her experience in substance
abuse detection and enforcement. The parties acknowledge that the type of information to be
presented to the Independent Expert is likely to consist of reports of conversations with third
parties of the type generally considered by law enforcement authorities to be reliable sources,
and that such sources might not otherwise come forward if their identities were to become
known. Accordingly, neither the WNBA nor the Players Association shall be required to divulge
to each other or to the Independent Expert the names (or other identifying characteristics) of their
sources of information regarding the use, possession, or distribution of a Prohibited Substance,
and the absence of such identification of sources, standing alone, shall not constitute a basis for
the Expert to refuse to issue an Authorization for Testing with respect to a player. In conferences
with the Independent Expert, the player involved shall not be identified by name until such time
as the Expert has determined to issue an Authorization for Testing with respect to such player.
(c) Immediately upon the Independent Expert's issuance of an Authorization
for Testing with respect to a particular player, the WNBA shall arrange for such player to
undergo testing for Drugs of Abuse (if the Authorization for Testing was based on information
regarding the use, possession, or distribution of a Drug of Abuse), for marijuana (if the
Exhibit 2 - 268distribution of marijuana), or for SPEDs (if the Authorization for Testing was based on
information regarding the player's use, possession, or distribution of a SPED) no more than four
(4) times during the six-week period commencing with the issuance of the Authorization for
Testing. Such testing may be administered at any time, in the discretion of the WNBA, without
prior notice to the player.
(d) In the event that the player tests positive for a Drug of Abuse pursuant to
this Section 5, or tests positive pursuant to Section 4(d)(iii), (iv) or (v) above in connection with
testing conducted pursuant to this Section 5, she shall immediately be dismissed and disqualified
from any association with the WNBA or any of its Teams in accordance with the provisions of
Section 11(a) below. If the player tests positive for marijuana or a SPED pursuant to this Section
5, she shall enter the Program and suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Sections 8 or 9
below, as the case may be. If a player tests positive for a Diuretic, she shall suffer the applicable
consequences of a positive test for the Prohibited Substance for which the Authorization for
Testing was issued.
(e) In the event that either the WNBA or the Players Association determines
that there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that, within the previous year, a player has
engaged in the use, possession, or distribution of a Prohibited Substance, or has received
treatment for use of a Prohibited Substance other than in accordance with the terms hereof, it
may, in lieu of requesting the testing procedure set forth in Section 5 (a)-(d) above, request a
hearing on the matter before the Arbitrator. If the Arbitrator concludes that, within the previous
year, the player has used, possessed, or distributed a Prohibited Substance, or has received
treatment other than in accordance with the terms hereof, the player shall immediately be
Exhibit 2 - 269accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) below, notwithstanding the fact that the player
has not undergone the testing procedure set forth in this Section 5; provided, however, that if the
Arbitrator concludes that the player has used or possessed marijuana or a SPED, she shall enter
the Program and suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Sections 8 or 9, as the case may
be.
Section 6. Random Testing.
(a) In addition to the testing procedures set forth in Section 5 above, a Player
shall be required to undergo testing for Prohibited Substances at any time, without prior notice to
the player, no more than three (3) times each Season and no more than one (1) time during each
Off-Season. For purposes of this Section 6, the last day of a Season for a player shall be the day
before that player's Off-Season begins. The scheduling of testing and collection of urine
samples will be conducted according to a random player selection procedure by a third-party
organization, and neither the WNBA, the Players Association, any Team or any player will have
any involvement in selecting the players to be tested or will receive prior notice of the testing
schedule; provided, however, that it shall not be a violation of the foregoing for the third-party
organization (or a specimen collector for the same) to provide advance notice of a scheduled
collection to an WNBA Team Security Representative, so long as such notice does not identify
the player(s) who will be tested and seeks merely to facilitate access of the collector to the
testing location. Urine samples collected during the Season will be tested for all Prohibited
Substances; urine samples collected during the Off-Season will be tested for SPEDs and
Diuretics only and may not under any circumstances be tested with respect to any other
Prohibited Substances.
Exhibit 2 - 270Abuse pursuant to this Section 6, she shall immediately be dismissed and disqualified
from any association with the WNBA or any of its Teams for a period of one (1) year, her
Player Contract (and any Marketing and Promotional Agreement to which she may be a
party) shall be rendered null and void and of no further force or effect; and she shall enter
Stage 1 of the Drugs of Abuse Program. Such dismissal and disqualification shall be
mandatory and may not be rescinded or reduced by the player's Team or the WNBA;
provided that such dismissal and disqualification, may be reduced or rescinded by an
Arbitrator in accordance with Section 18 below.
(ii) During any period while a First-Year Player is dismissed and
disqualified from the WNBA under Section 6(b)(i) above, and so long as such player is in
compliance with her in-patient or aftercare obligations under the Program (as determined
by the Medical Director), she shall receive from her Team a reasonable and necessary
living expense stipend to be agreed upon by the WNBA and the Players Association
which (A) shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the Base Salary that the player
would otherwise have been entitled to earn for the period of her dismissal and
disqualification and (B) shall not be payable for more than one (1) year from the date of
such dismissal and disqualification (but in no event following the expiration of the
Agreement).
(iii) Any First-Year Player who tests positive for marijuana or a SPED
pursuant to this Section 6, shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Sections 8
or 9 below, as the case may be. Any First-Year Player who tests positive for a Diuretic
Exhibit 2 - 271suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Section 9 below.
(c) In the event that a Veteran Player tests positive for a Drug of Abuse
pursuant to this Section 6, she shall immediately be dismissed and disqualified from any
association with the WNBA or any of its teams in accordance with the provisions of Section
11(a) below; provided that such dismissal and disqualification may be reduced or rescinded by
an Arbitrator in accordance with Section 18 below. If the player tests positive for marijuana or a
SPED pursuant to this Section 6, she shall enter the Program and suffer the applicable
consequences set forth in Sections 8 or 9 below, as the case may be. If the player tests positive
for a Diuretic pursuant to this Section 6, she shall be deemed to have tested positive for a SPED
and shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Section 9 below.
(d) In the event that any player tests "positive" pursuant to Section 4(d)(iii),
(iv) or (v) above in connection with testing conducted pursuant to this Section 6, that positive
test result shall be considered a positive test result for a Drug of Abuse, and the player shall
immediately be dismissed and disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its
Teams in accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) below.
Section 7. Drugs of Abuse Program.
(a) Voluntary Entry.
(i) A player may enter the Drugs of Abuse Program voluntarily at any
time by Coming Forward Voluntarily for a problem involving the use of a Drug of
Abuse; provided, however, that a player may not Come Forward Voluntarily (A) until she
has signed a Standard Player Contract and has been selected in a WNBA Draft or invited
to a training camp; (B) during any period in which an Authorization for Testing as to that
player remains in effect pursuant to Section 5 above; (C) during any period in which she
Exhibit 2 - 272Program; (D) after she has reached Stage 2 of the Drugs of Abuse Program; or (E) after
the WNBA has notified the Players Association in writing (including via email) that an
original or "A" sample provided by such player has tested positive for a Prohibited
Substance.
(ii) If a player who has not previously entered the Drugs of Abuse
Program Comes Forward Voluntarily for a problem involving the use of a Drug of
Abuse, she shall enter Stage 1 of the Drugs of Abuse Program.
(iii) If a player who has not previously entered Stage 2 of the Drugs of
Abuse Program, but who has been notified by the Medical Director that she has
successfully completed Stage 1 of that Program, Comes Forward Voluntarily for a
problem involving the use of a Drug of Abuse, she shall enter Stage 2 of the Drugs of
Abuse Program.
(iv) No penalty of any kind will be imposed on a player as a result of
having Come Forward Voluntarily for a problem involving the use of a Drug of Abuse.
The foregoing sentence shall not preclude the imposition of a penalty under Section
7(c)(iv) below as a result of the player's entering Stage 2 of the Drugs of Abuse Program,
or any penalty called for hereunder as a result of conduct by the player that occurs after
she has Come Forward Voluntarily.
(b) Stage 1.
(i) Any player who has entered Stage 1 of the Drugs of Abuse
Program shall be required to submit to an evaluation by the Medical Director, provide (or
cause to be provided) to the Medical Director such relevant medical and treatment
Exhibit 2 - 273program prescribed by the Medical Director.
(ii) If a player, within ten (10) days of the date on which she was
notified that she had entered Stage 1 of the Drugs of Abuse Program and without a
reasonable excuse, fails to comply (in the professional judgment of the Medical Director)
with any of the obligations set forth in Section 7(b)(i) above, she shall be suspended until
such time as the Medical Director determines that she has fully complied with Section
7(b)(i) above. If such noncompliance continues without a reasonable excuse (in the
professional judgment of the Medical Director) for thirty (30) days from the date on
which the player was notified that she had entered Stage 1 of the Drugs of Abuse
Program, the player shall, following notice of the player's non-compliance by the
Medical Director to the WNBA and then by the WNBA to the player's Team
(notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3 above) (A) advance to Stage 2 of the Drugs
of Abuse Program, or (B) the player's Team may, notwithstanding any term or provision
in or amendment to the player's Standard Player Contract or any Marketing and
Promotional Agreement to which she may be a party, elect to terminate such Contract
and/or Agreement without any further obligation to pay any Base Salary or Additional
Marketing and Promotional Compensation, except to pay the Base Salary and any
Additional Marketing and Promotional Compensation that may have been earned by the
player prior to the date of termination.
(iii) Except as provided herein, no penalty of any kind will be imposed
on a player while she is in Stage 1 of the Drugs of Abuse Program and, provided she
complies with the terms of her prescribed treatment, she will continue to receive her Base
Exhibit 2 - 274In-Patient Facility and such aftercare as may be required by the Medical Director.
(c) Stage 2.
(i) Any player who has entered Stage 2 of the Drugs of Abuse
Program shall be required to submit to an evaluation by the Medical Director, provide (or
cause to be provided) to the Medical Director such relevant medical and treatment
records as the Medical Director may request, and commence the treatment and testing
program prescribed by the Medical Director.
(ii) If a player, within thirty (30) days of the date on which she was
notified that she had entered Stage 2 of the Drugs of Abuse Program and without a
reasonable excuse, fails to comply (in the professional judgment of the Medical Director)
with any of the obligations set forth in Section 7(c)(i) above, she shall immediately be
dismissed and disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its Teams in
accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) below.
(iii) A player in Stage 2 of the Drugs of Abuse Program shall be
suspended during the period of her in-patient treatment and for at least the first three (3)
months of her aftercare treatment. The player shall remain suspended during any
subsequent period in which she is undergoing treatment that, in the professional judgment
of the Medical Director, prevents her from rendering the playing services called for by
her Standard Player Contract.
(iv) Any subsequent use, possession, or distribution of a Drug of Abuse
by a player in Stage 2, even if voluntarily disclosed, or any conduct by a player in Stage 2
that results in her advancing one Stage in the Drugs of Abuse Program, shall result in the
Exhibit 2 - 275WNBA or any of its Teams in accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) below.
(d) Treatment and Testing Program.
A player who enters the Drugs of Abuse Program shall be required to comply
with such in-patient and aftercare program as may be prescribed and supplemented from time to
time by the Medical Director. Such program may include random testing for Prohibited
Substances other than SPEDs, and for alcohol, and such non-testing elements as may be
determined in the professional judgment of the Medical Director.
Section 8. Marijuana Program.
(a) Voluntary Entry.
(i) A player may enter the Marijuana Program voluntarily at any time
by Coming Forward Voluntarily; provided, however, that a player may not Come
Forward Voluntarily for a problem involving the use of Marijuana (A) until she has
signed a Standard Player Contract and has been selected in a WNBA Draft or invited to a
training camp; (B) during any period in which an Authorization for Testing as to that
player remains in effect pursuant to Section 5; (C) during any period in which she
remains subject to in-patient or aftercare treatment in the Marijuana Program; or (D) after
the WNBA has notified the Players Association in writing (including via email) that an
original or "A" sample provided by such player has tested positive for a Prohibited
Substance.
(ii) If a player who has not previously entered the Marijuana Program,
or a player who has been notified by the Medical Director that she has successfully
completed that Program, Comes Forward Voluntarily for a problem involving the use of
marijuana, she shall enter the Marijuana Program.
Exhibit 2 - 276having Come Forward Voluntarily for a problem involving the use of marijuana. The
foregoing sentence shall not preclude the imposition of any penalty called for hereunder
as a result of conduct by the player that occurs after she has Come Forward Voluntarily.
(b) Treatment.
(i) A player who enters the Marijuana Program shall be required to
submit to an evaluation by the Medical Director, provide (or cause to be provided) to the
Medical Director such relevant medical and treatment records as the Medical Director
may request, and commence the treatment and testing program prescribed by the Medical
Director. Such program may include random testing for Prohibited Substances other than
SPEDs, and for alcohol, and such non-testing elements as may be determined in the
professional judgment of the Medical Director.
(ii) If a player, within five (5) days of the date on which she was
notified that she had entered the Marijuana Program and without a reasonable excuse,
fails to comply (in the professional judgment of the Medical Director) with any of the
obligations set forth in the first sentence of Section 8(b)(i) above, she shall be fined
\$2,000; if the player thereafter fails to comply, without a reasonable excuse, with such
obligations (in the professional judgment of the Medical Director) within eight (8) days
of such notification, she shall be fined an additional \$2,000; and for each additional day
beyond the 8th day that the player, without a reasonable excuse, fails to comply with such
obligations (in the professional judgment of the Medical Director), she shall be fined an
additional \$2,000. The total amount of such fines may not exceed the player's total Base
Salary and Additional Marketing and Promotional Compensation.
Exhibit 2 - 277Any player who (i) tests positive for marijuana pursuant to Section 5 (Reasonable
Cause Testing), Section 6 (Random Testing), or Section 15 (Additional Bases for Testing), (ii) is
adjudged by the Arbitrator pursuant to Section 5(e) to have used or possessed marijuana, or (iii)
has been convicted of (including a plea of guilty, no contest or nolo contendere to) the use or
possession of marijuana in violation of the law, shall suffer the following penalties:
(A) For the first such violation, the player shall be required to enter the
Marijuana Program;
(B) For the second such violation, the player shall be fined \$3,000, and, if the
player is not then subject to in-patient or aftercare treatment in the Marijuana Program, be
required to enter the Marijuana Program;
(C) For the third such violation, the player shall be suspended for three (3)
games, and, if the player is not then subject to in-patient or aftercare treatment in the Marijuana
Program, be required to enter the Marijuana Program; and
(D) For any subsequent violation, the player shall be suspended for three (3)
games longer than her immediately preceding suspension for violating the Marijuana Program,
and, if the player is not then subject to in-patient or aftercare treatment in the Marijuana
Program, be required to enter the Marijuana Program.
Section 9. Steroids, Performance-Enhancing Drugs and Masking Agents Program.
(a) Treatment.
(i) A player who enters the SPED Program shall be required to submit
to an evaluation by the Medical Director, provide (or cause to be provided) to the
Medical Director such relevant medical and treatment records as the Medical Director
may request, and commence the treatment and testing program prescribed by the Medical
Exhibit 2 - 278non-testing elements as may be determined in the professional judgment of the Medical
Director.
(ii) If a player, within five (5) days of the date on which she was
notified that she had entered the SPED Program and without a reasonable excuse, fails to
comply (in the professional judgment of the Medical Director) with any of the obligations
set forth in the first sentence of Section 9(a)(i) above, she shall be fined \$2,000; if the
player, without a reasonable excuse, thereafter fails to comply with such obligations (in
the professional judgment of the Medical Director) within eight (8) days of such
notification, she shall be fined an additional \$2,000; and for each additional day beyond
the 8th day that the player, without a reasonable excuse, fails to comply with such
obligations (in the professional judgment of the Medical Director), she shall be fined an
additional \$2,000. The total amount of such fines shall not exceed the player's total Base
Salary and Additional Marketing and Promotional Compensation.
(b) Penalties.
Any player who (i) tests positive for a SPED pursuant to Section 5 (Reasonable
Cause Testing), Section 6 (Random Testing), or Section 15 (Additional Bases for Testing), or (ii)
is adjudged by the Arbitrator pursuant to Section 5(e) above to have used or possessed a SPED,
shall suffer the following penalties:
(A) For the first such violation, the player shall be suspended for ten (10)
games and be required to enter the SPED Program;
Exhibit 2 - 279four (24) games and, if the player is not then subject to in-patient or aftercare treatment in the
SPED Program, be required to enter the SPED Program; and
(C) For the third such violation, the player shall be immediately dismissed and
disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its Teams in accordance with the
provisions of Section 11(a) below.
(c) The penalties set forth in Section 9(b)(i) above and Section 9(b)(ii) above
with respect to a player's use of a SPED may be reduced or rescinded by the Arbitrator in
accordance with Section 18 below.
Section 10. Noncompliance with Treatment.
(a) Drugs of Abuse.
(i) Any player who, after entering Stage 1 or Stage 2 of the Drugs of
Abuse Program, fails to comply with her treatment or her aftercare program, as
prescribed and determined by the Medical Director, shall be suspended. Such suspension
shall continue until the player has, in the professional judgment of the Medical Director,
resumed full compliance with her treatment program.
(ii) Notwithstanding Section 10(a)(i) above, any player who in the
professional judgment of the Medical Director, after entering Stage 1 or Stage 2 of the
Drugs of Abuse Program, fails to comply with her treatment program through (A) a
pattern of behavior that demonstrates a mindful disregard for her treatment
responsibilities, or (B) a positive test for a Prohibited Substance other than a SPED that is
not clinically expected by the Medical Director, shall suffer the following penalties:
Exhibit 2 - 280advance to Stage 2 and be suspended until, in the professional judgment of the Medical Director,
she has resumed full compliance with her treatment program; or
(B) if the player already is in Stage 2 of the Drugs of Abuse Program, she shall
immediately be dismissed and disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its
Teams in accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) below.
(b) Marijuana.
(i) Any player who, after entering the Marijuana Program, fails to
comply (without a reasonable excuse) with her treatment program as prescribed and
determined by the Medical Director, shall be fined \$300 for each day that she fails to
comply. Such fines shall continue until the player has, in the professional judgment of
the Medical Director, resumed full compliance with her treatment program. The total
amount of such fines shall not exceed the player's total Base Salary and Additional
Marketing and Promotional Compensation.
(ii) Notwithstanding Section 10(b)(i) above, any player who, after
entering the Marijuana Program, fails to comply with her treatment program as
prescribed and determined by the Medical Director through (A) a pattern of behavior that
demonstrates a mindful disregard for her treatment responsibilities, or (B) a positive test
for marijuana that is not clinically expected by the Medical Director, shall suffer the
following penalties:
(A) if the player has not previously been suspended for three
(3) games under Section 8(c) above or this Section 10(b)(ii), a fine of \$3,000;
Exhibit 2 - 281Section 8(c) above or this Section 10(b)(ii), a suspension of three (3) games; or
(C) if the player has previously been suspended for three (3) or
more games under Section 8(c) or this Section 10(b)(ii), a suspension that is at
least three (3) games longer than her immediately preceding suspension and that
shall continue until, in the professional judgment of the Medical Director, the
player resumes full compliance with her treatment program.
(iii) In addition to any consequence to the player under Section
10(b)(ii) above, any player who has entered the Marijuana Program but not the Drugs of
Abuse Program, and tests positive for a Drug of Abuse in any test conducted by the
Medical Director, shall enter Stage 1 of the Drugs of Abuse Program.
(c) SPEDs.
(i) Any player who, after entering the SPED Program, fails to comply
(without a reasonable excuse) with her treatment program as prescribed and determined
by the Medical Director, shall be fined \$1,000 per day for each day that she fails to
comply. Such fines shall continue until the player has, in the professional judgment of
the Medical Director, resumed full compliance with her treatment program. The total
amount of such fines shall not exceed the player's total Base Salary and Additional
Marketing and Promotional Compensation.
(ii) Notwithstanding Section 10(c)(i) above, any player who, after
entering the SPED Program, fails to comply with her treatment program as prescribed
and determined by the Medical Director through (A) a pattern of behavior that
demonstrates a mindful disregard of her treatment responsibilities, or (B) a positive test
Exhibit 2 - 282following penalties:
(1) if the player has not previously been suspended for ten (10)
games under Section 9(b) above or this Section 10(c)(ii), a suspension of ten (10)
games;
(2) if the player has previously been suspended for ten (10)
games under Section 9(b) above or this Section 10(c)(ii), a suspension of twenty-
four (24) games; or
(3) if the player has previously been suspended for twenty-four
(24) games under Section 9(b) above or this Section 10(c)(ii), the player shall be
immediately dismissed and disqualified from any association with the WNBA or
any of its Teams in accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) below.
(d) Directed Testing.
Any player who, after entering the Program, and without a reasonable explanation
satisfactory to the Medical Director, (i) fails to appear for any of her Team's scheduled games, or
(ii) misses, during any consecutive seven-day (7) period, any two (2) airplane flights on which
her team is scheduled to travel, any two (2) Team practices, or a combination of any one (1)
practice and any one (1) Team flight, shall immediately submit to a urine test to be arranged by
the WNBA and conducted by a third-party organization. If any test conducted pursuant to this
Section 10(d) is positive: (i) for a Drug of Abuse or pursuant to Section 4(d)(iii), (iv) or (v)
above (for a player in the Drugs of Abuse Program), then the player shall suffer the applicable
consequence set forth in Section 10(a)(ii) above; (ii) for marijuana or pursuant to Section
4(d)(iii), (iv) or (v) above (for a player in the Marijuana Program), then the player shall suffer the
Exhibit 2 - 283Section 4(d)(iii), (iv) or (v) above (for a player in the SPED Program), then the player will suffer
the applicable consequence set forth in Section 10(c)(ii) above. If any test conducted pursuant to
this Section 10(d) is positive for a Diuretic, then the player shall suffer the applicable
consequences of a positive test for the Prohibited Substance for which she entered the Program.
Section 11. Dismissal and Disqualification.
(a) A player who, under the terms of this Agreement, is "dismissed and
disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its Teams in accordance with the
provisions of Section 11(a)" shall, without exception, immediately be so dismissed and
disqualified for a period of not less than two (2) years, and such player's Player Contract (and
any Marketing and Promotional Agreement to which she may be a party) shall be rendered null
and void and of no further force or effect (subject to the provisions of paragraph 8 of the
Standard Player Contract). Such dismissal and disqualification shall be mandatory and may not
be rescinded or reduced by the player's Team or the WNBA.
(b) In addition to any other provision hereof requiring that a player be
dismissed and disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its Teams in
accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a), a player will also be dismissed and disqualified
under Section 11(a) above if she is convicted of (including a plea of guilty, no contest, or nolo
contendere to) a crime involving the use, possession or distribution of a Prohibited Substance
other than marijuana or a felony involving the distribution of marijuana.
Section 12. Reinstatement.
(a) After a period of at least two (2) years from a player's dismissal and
disqualification under Section 11(a) above, and after a period of at least one (1) year from the
date of a First-Year Player's dismissal and disqualification under Section 6(b) above, such player
Exhibit 2 - 284to reinstatement under any circumstance and the reinstatement shall be granted only with the
prior approval of both the WNBA and the Players Association, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld. The approval of the WNBA and the Players Association shall be final, binding, and
unappealable. Among the factors that may be considered by the WNBA and the Players
Association in determining whether to grant reinstatement are (without limitation): the
circumstances surrounding the player's dismissal and disqualification; whether the player has
satisfactorily completed a treatment and rehabilitation program; the player's conduct since her
dismissal, including the extent to which the player has since comported herself as a suitable role
model for youth; and whether the player is judged to possess the requisite qualities of good
character and morality.
(b) For a First-Year Player, the WNBA and the Players Association will
consider an application for reinstatement only if the player has, in the opinion of the Medical
Director, successfully completed any in-patient treatment and/or aftercare prescribed by the
Medical Director. For a Veteran Player, the WNBA and the Players Association will consider an
application for reinstatement only if the player can demonstrate, by proof of random urine testing
acceptable to the Medical Director (conducted on at least a weekly basis), that she has not tested
positive (i) for a Prohibited Substance within the twelve (12) months prior to the submission of
her application for reinstatement and during any period while her application is being reviewed,
and (ii) if the Medical Director deems it necessary in his or her professional judgment, for
alcohol for the six (6) months prior to the submission of the player's application for
reinstatement and during any period while her application is being reviewed.
Exhibit 2 - 285random testing of the player or such other terms as may be agreed upon by the WNBA and the
Players Association, whether or not such terms are contemplated by the provisions hereof.
(d) Any player who has been reinstated pursuant to this Section 12 and is
subsequently dismissed and disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its
Teams in accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) above shall therefore be ineligible for
reinstatement pursuant to this Section 12.
(e) In the event that the application for reinstatement of a First-Year Player
dismissed and disqualified pursuant to Section 6(b) above is approved, such player, by reason of
her Player Contract having been rendered null and void pursuant to Section 6(b) above, shall be
deemed not to have completed her Player Contract by rendering the playing services called for
thereunder. Accordingly, such player shall not be a Free Agent and shall not be entitled to
negotiate or sign a Standard Player Contract with any WNBA Team, except as specifically
provided in this Section 12.
(f) (i) A First-Year player who has been reinstated pursuant to this
Section 12 shall, immediately upon such reinstatement, notify the Team to which she was
under contract at the time of her dismissal and disqualification (the "previous Team").
Upon receipt of such notification, and subject to Section 12(f)(ii) below, the previous
Team shall then have thirty (30) days in which to make a Tender to the player with a
stated term of at least one (1) full WNBA Season (or, in the event that the Tender is made
during a Season, of at least the remainder of that Season) and calling for a Salary up to
the player's Salary for the Salary Cap Year in which she was dismissed or disqualified
(reduced on a pro rata basis if the Tender is made during a Season). If the previous Team
Exhibit 2 - 286the only WNBA Team with which the player may negotiate and sign a Standard Player
Contract. If the player does not sign a Standard Player Contract with the previous Team
within the year following such Tender, then the player shall thereupon be deemed a
Reserved Player in accordance with the provisions of Article VI, Section 8. If the
previous Team fails to make a Tender, the player shall become an Unrestricted Free
Agent.
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 12(f)(i) above,
the 30-day period for the previous Team to make a Tender shall be tolled if (A) on the
date the player serves the notice required by Section 12(f)(i), she is under contract to a
professional basketball team not in the WNBA, or (B) the player signs a contract with a
professional basketball team not in the WNBA at any point after the date on which the
player serves the notice required by Section 12(f)(i) and before the date on which the
previous Team makes a Tender. If the 30-day period for making a Tender is tolled
pursuant to the preceding sentence, the period shall remain tolled until the date on which
the player notifies the Team that she is immediately available to sign and begin rendering
playing services under a Standard Player Contract with such Team, provided that such
notice will not be effective until the player is under no contractual or other legal
impediment to sign with and begin rendering playing services for such Team.
(iii) Subject to the provisions of Article VII, a First-Year Player who is
reinstated pursuant to this Section 12 may enter into a Standard Player Contract with her
previous Team that provides for a Salary for the first Season of up to the player's Salary
for the Salary Cap Year in which she was dismissed and disqualified (reduced on a pro
Exhibit 2 - 287previous Team enter into such Player Contract and such Contract covers more than one
Season, increases and decreases in Salary for Seasons following the first Season shall be
governed by Article VII, Section 3(c); provided, however, that if the player who is
reinstated was dismissed and disqualified during the term of her Rookie Scale Contract,
then (x) the number of Seasons in the player's new Contract may not exceed the number
of Seasons (including the Team Option Year) that remained under the player's Rookie
Scale Contract at the time she was dismissed and disqualified, and the Salary called for in
any Season of the player's new Contract (including any Option Year), may not exceed
the Salary called for during the corresponding Season of her Rookie Scale Contract, and
(y) if the new Contract contains terms identical to those contained in the remaining
Seasons of the player's Rookie Scale Contract at the time she was dismissed and
disqualified, and the player's Team ultimately exercises its Option, then such Team shall
retain the same rights with respect to such new Contract as it would have retained under
Article VI following the completion of the player's Rookie Scale Contract.
(g) (i) A Veteran Player who has been reinstated pursuant to this Section
12 shall, immediately upon such reinstatement, notify the Team to which she was under
contract at the time of her dismissal and disqualification (the "previous Team"). Upon
receipt of such notification, and subject to Section 12(g)(ii) below, the previous Team
shall then have thirty (30) days in which to make a Tender to the player with a stated term
of at least one (1) full WNBA Season (or, in the event that the Tender is made during a
Season, of at least the remainder of that Season) and calling for a Salary up to the
player's Salary for the Salary Cap Year in which she was dismissed and disqualified
Exhibit 2 - 288makes such a Tender, it shall, for a period of one (1) year from the date of the Tender, be
the only WNBA Team with which the player may negotiate and sign a Standard Player
Contract. If the player does not sign a Standard Player Contract with the previous Team
within the year following such Tender, then the player shall thereupon be deemed a
Reserved Player, a Restricted or an Unrestricted Free Agent in accordance with the
provisions of Article VI. If the previous Team fails to make a Tender, the player shall
become an Unrestricted Free Agent. If the player and the previous Team enter into such
Player Contract and such Contract covers more than one Season, increases and decreases
in Salary for Seasons following the first Season shall be governed by Article VII, Section
3(c); provided, however, that if the player who is reinstated was dismissed and
disqualified during the term of her Rookie Scale Contract, then (x) the number of Seasons
in the player's new Contract may not exceed the number of Seasons (including the Team
Option Year) that remained under the player's Rookie Scale Contract at the time she was
dismissed and disqualified, and the Salary called for in any Season of the player's new
Contract (including any Option Year), may not exceed the Salary called for during the
corresponding Season of her Rookie Scale Contract, and (y) if the new Contract contains
terms identical to those contained in the remaining Seasons of the player's Rookie Scale
Contract at the time she was dismissed and disqualified, and the player's Team ultimately
exercises its Option, then such Team shall retain the same rights with respect to such new
Contract as it would have retained under Article VI following the completion of the
player's Rookie Scale Contract.
Exhibit 2 - 289above, the 30-day period for the previous Team to make a Tender shall be tolled if (x) on
the date the player serves the notice required by Section 12(g)(i), she is under contract to
a professional basketball team not in the WNBA, or (y) the player signs a contract with a
professional basketball team not in the WNBA at any point after the date on which she
serves the notice required by Section 12(g)(i) and before the date on which the previous
Team makes a Tender. If the 30-day period for making a Tender is tolled pursuant to the
preceding sentence, the period shall remain tolled until the date on which the player
notifies the Team that she is available to sign a Standard Player Contract with and begin
rendering playing services for such Team immediately, provided that such notice will not
be effective until the player is under no contractual or other legal impediment to sign with
and begin rendering playing services for such Team.
Section 13. Exclusivity of the Program.
(a) Except as expressly provided herein in this Exhibit 2, there shall be no
other screening or testing for Prohibited Substances conducted by the WNBA or any Team, and
no player may undergo such screening or testing; provided, however, that, in a medical
emergency, team physicians may test players solely for diagnostic purposes in order to provide
satisfactory medical care. The results of any diagnostic drug testing conducted pursuant to the
preceding sentence shall not be used for any other purpose by the player's Team or the WNBA.
If any Team is found to have tested a player surreptitiously, the WNBA will impose a substantial
fine not to exceed \$100,000 upon such Team.
(b) The penalties set forth herein shall be the exclusive penalties to be
imposed upon a player for the use, possession or distribution of a Prohibited Substance.
Exhibit 2 - 290include any term or provision that modifies, contradicts, changes, or is inconsistent with
Paragraph 8 of such Contract or provides for the testing of a player for illegal substances. Any
term or provision of a currently effective Standard Player Contract that is inconsistent with
Paragraph 8 of such Contract shall be deemed null and void only to the extent of the
inconsistency.
Section 14. HGH Blood Testing.
(a) The WNBA may commence HGH Blood Testing with notice of at least
sixty (60) days to WNBA players; provided, however, that HGH Blood Testing will not
commence before the start of the 2020 Season. Such testing may take place under Section 5
(Reasonable Cause Testing), Section 6 (Random Testing) and Section 9 (Steroids, Performance-
Enhancing Drugs and Masking Agents) above, and Section 15 (Additional Bases for Testing)
below; provided, however, that random HGH Blood Testing pursuant to Section 6 above will
occur no more than two (2) times during each Season and no more than one (1) time during each
Off-Season (for purposes of this Section 14, the last day of a Season for a player shall be the day
before that player's Off-Season begins). (For clarity, the number of random blood tests for
Human Growth Hormone shall be in addition to the number of random urine tests for other
Prohibited Substances called for in Section 6 above.)
(b) HGH Blood Testing shall comply with the laboratory testing protocols and
specimen collection procedures established by the NBA. The WNBA (after consultation with
the Players Association) is authorized to retain such consultants and support services as are
necessary and appropriate to administer and conduct such HGH Blood Testing.
Exhibit 2 - 291(a) Any player who seeks treatment outside the Program for a problem
involving a Prohibited Substance shall, as directed by the WNBA (after notice to the Players
Association), submit herself to an evaluation by the Medical Director and provide (or cause to be
provided) to the Medical Director such medical and treatment records as the Medical Director
may request. The Medical Director may, in his or her professional judgment, also require such a
player, without prior notice, to submit to testing for Prohibited Substances, provided that the
frequency of such testing shall not exceed three (3) times per week and the duration of such
testing shall not exceed one (1) year from the date of the player's initial evaluation by the
Medical Director.
(b) Any player who is subject to in-patient or aftercare treatment in the
Program and is formally charged with "driving while intoxicated," "driving under the influence
of alcohol," or any other crime or offense involving suspected alcohol or illegal substance use
shall, provided that the WNBA has advised the Players Association, be required to submit to a
urine test, to be conducted by the WNBA, within seven (7) days of being so charged.
(c) If, pursuant to Section 15(a) above, a player (i) tests positive for a Drug of
Abuse; (ii) tests positive pursuant to Section 4(d)(iii), (iv) or (v) above; or (iii) refuses or fails to
submit to an evaluation or provide (or cause to be provided) the information requested by the
Medical Director; but does not Come Forward Voluntarily within sixty (60) days of being
requested to do so by the WNBA (with notice to the Players Association), or if, pursuant to
Section 15(b) above, a player tests positive for a Drug of Abuse, then, in either case, the player
shall advance two (2) stages in the Drugs of Abuse Program – i.e., the player shall enter Stage 2
of the Drugs of Abuse Program (if the player had not previously entered Stage 1 of such
Exhibit 2 - 292WNBA or any of its Teams in accordance with the provisions of Section 11(a) above (if the
player had previously entered Stage 1 or Stage 2 of such Program).
(d) If, pursuant to Section 15(a) or (b) above, a player tests positive for
marijuana or a SPED, she shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Sections 8 or 9
above, as the case may be. If, pursuant to Section 15(a) or (b) above, a player tests positive for a
Diuretic, she shall be deemed to have tested positive for a SPED and shall suffer the applicable
consequences set forth in Section 9 above.
(e) If a player is or, within the previous six (6) months, (i) has been in
possession of any device or product used or designed for substituting, diluting, or adulterating a
specimen sample, or (ii) has been subject to a finding by another sports league or anti-doping
organization that she has substituted, diluted or adulterated a specimen sample and that finding
has not been overturned on appeal, that player shall be required to undergo testing for Prohibited
Substances no more than four (4) times during the six-week period following her notification by
the WNBA of the commencement of such testing. If the player (i) tests positive for a Drug of
Abuse or (ii) tests positive pursuant to Section 4(d)(iii), (iv) or (v) above, she shall be dismissed
and disqualified from any association with the WNBA or any of its Teams in accordance with
the provisions of Section 11(a) above. If the player tests positive for marijuana or a SPED, she
shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Sections 8 or 9 above, as the case may be. If
the player tests positive for a Diuretic, she shall be deemed to have tested positive for a SPED
and shall suffer the applicable consequences set forth in Section 9 above. A player who tests
positive for a Drug of Abuse or a SPED pursuant to this Section 15(e) may have her dismissal
Exhibit 2 - 293Section 18 below.
(f) Nothing in this Section 15 shall limit or otherwise affect any of the
provisions of Section 5 (Reasonable Cause Testing).
Section 16. Additional Prohibited Substances and Testing Methods.
(a) Any steroid or performance-enhancing drug that is declared illegal during
the term of this Agreement will automatically be added to the list of Prohibited Substances as a
SPED.
(b) At any time during the term of this Agreement, either the WNBA or the
Players Association may convene a meeting of the Prohibited Substances Committee to request
that a substance or substances be added to the list of Prohibited Substances set forth on Exhibit B
annexed hereto. Any such addition of a Prohibited Substance may only include a substance that
is or is reasonably likely to be physically harmful to players and is or is reasonably likely to be
improperly performance-enhancing. The determination of the Committee to add to the list of
Prohibited Substances shall be made by a majority vote of all five (5) Committee members, and
shall be final, binding, and unappealable.
(c) Players will receive notice of any addition to the list of Prohibited
Substances six (6) months prior to the date on which such addition becomes effective hereunder.
(d) At any time during the term of this Agreement, either the WNBA or the
Players Association may convene a meeting of the Prohibited Substances Committee to request
that a testing method be added to the Program. Pursuant to this Section 16(d), the Prohibited
Substances Committee shall have the authority to: (i) determine what testing methods will be
used to detect newly added Prohibited Substances under the Program, if such Prohibited
Substances are detected by methods not currently used by the Program's laboratories; and
Exhibit 2 - 294methods have been developed or validated during the term of this Agreement; provided,
however, that the Prohibited Substances Committee shall not have the authority to add a testing
method that would require a change to the manner in which specimens are collected from players
(such as a change from urine collections to blood collections). Any determination of the
Committee pursuant to this Section 16(d) shall be made by a majority vote of all five (5)
Committee members, and shall be final, binding, and unappealable.
Section 17. Prescriptions under the Anti-Drug Program
(a) Notwithstanding the confidentiality provisions of Section 3 of this Exhibit
2, before any player is prescribed a drug or substance (whether or not it is a Prohibited
Substance) as part of her treatment in the Program, the Medical Director will notify the
designated physician of the player's team of the name of the drug or substance (the "Proposed
Substance"), the medical justification for the prescription of the Proposed Substance, and the
name of the prescribing physician.
(b) If the designated physician of the player's team advises the Medical
Director – at that time or at any time thereafter – that the Proposed Substance would create a
possible adverse reaction with another prescription substance that the player is being
administered, a discussion will be held among the Medical Director, the prescribing physician
and the designated team physician with respect to modifying one or both of the prescriptions so
as to avoid the potential adverse reaction.
(c) If the Medical Director becomes aware that a player has been traded to or
signed with another team after notification has been made to a designated team physician under
Section 17(a) above, the Medical Director is required to make the same notification to the
Exhibit 2 - 295Section 17(b) above.
(d) A team physician who receives a notification from the Medical Director
under this Section 17 may only disclose the prescription for the Proposed Substance to other
members of the team medical staff who are required to be advised of the prescription in order to
ensure that the player is receiving proper medical care from the team's medical staff, and to no
other person.
Section 18. No Significant Fault or Negligence by Player
(a) If a player proves by clear and convincing evidence that she bears no
significant fault or negligence for the presence of a Drug of Abuse or a SPED in her test result,
an Arbitrator may, in a proceeding brought under Article XXII, Section 4(b) of this Agreement,
reduce or rescind the penalty otherwise applicable under this Exhibit 2. Such reduction or
rescission (if any) will be determined at the discretion of the Grievance Arbitrator.
(b) For purposes of this Section 18, "no significant fault or negligence" means
the unusual circumstance in which the player did not know or suspect, and could not reasonably
have known or suspected, even with the exercise of considerable caution and diligence, that she
was taking, ingesting, applying, or otherwise using the Drug of Abuse or SPED. To show that
she bears no significant fault or negligence, the player must also establish how the Drug of
Abuse or SPED entered her system. A player cannot satisfy her burden by merely denying that
she intentionally used the Drug of Abuse or SPED.
Exhibit 2 - 296AUTHORIZATION FOR TESTING
To: ___________________
(Player)
Please be advised that on _____________________, you were the subject of a
meeting or conference call held pursuant to the Anti-Drug Program as set forth in Exhibit 2 to
the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the WNBA and the Women's National Basketball
Players Association, dated January 17, 2020 (the "Agreement"). Following the meeting or
conference call, I authorized the WNBA to conduct the testing procedures set forth in the
Agreement, and you are hereby directed to submit to those testing procedures, on demand, no
more than four times during the next six (6) weeks.
Please be advised that your failure to submit to these procedures may result in the
imposition of substantial penalties under Article XXI of and Exhibit 2 to the Collective
Bargaining Agreement, including but not limited to your dismissal and disqualification from the
WNBA.
__________________________
Independent Expert
Dated:
Exhibit 2 - 297PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES
A. Drugs of Abuse
Benzodiazepines:
Alprazolam (also called Xanax or Niravam)
Chlordiazepoxide (also called Librium, Mitran, Poxi or H-Tran) Clonazepam
(also called Klonopin, Ceberclon or Valpaz)
Diazepam (also called Valium)
Lorazepam (also called Ativan)
Synthetic Cathinones
4-methyl-N-ethylcathinone (also called 4-MEC)
4-methyl-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (also called 4-MePPP)
Alpha-pyrrolidinopentiophenone (also called alpha-PVP)
1-(1,3-benzodioxol-5-yl)-2-(methylamino)butan-1-one (also called
Butylone)
2-(methylamino)-1-phenylpentan-1-one (also called Pentedrone)
1-(1,3-benzodioxol-5-yl)-2-(methylamino)pentan-1-one (also called
Pentylone)
4-fluoro-N-methylcathinone (also called 4-FMC)
3-fluoro-N-methylcathinone (also called 3-FMC)
1-(naphthalen-2-yl)-2-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)pentan-1-one (also called
Naphyrone)
Alpha-pyrrolidinobutiophenone (also called Alpha-PBP)
Cocaine
Gamma Hydroxybutyrate (GHB)
Ketamine
LSD
Methamphetamine, MDMA, MDA and MDEA
Opiates:
Heroin
Codeine
Morphine
Oxycodone (also called Oxycontin, Percocet, Percodan, Roxicet,
Tylox, Dazidox, Endocet or Endodan)
Exhibit 2 - 298Norco)
Methadone (also called Methadose or Dolophine)
Hydromorphone (also called Dilaudid)
Fentanyl (also called Actiq or Duragesic)
Propoxyphene (also called Darvon or Darvocet)
Phencyclidine (PCP)
B. Marijuana
Marijuana and its By-Products
Synthetic Cannabinoids:
5-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-phenol (also
called CP-47,497)
5-(1,1-dimethyloctyl)-2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-phenol (also
called Cannabicyclohexanol or CP-47,497 C8-homolog)
1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also called JWH-018 or AM678)
1-butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also called JWH-073)
1-hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also called JWH-019)
1-[2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl]-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also called
JWH-200)
1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (also called JWH-250)
1-pentyl-3-[1-(4-methoxynaphthoyl)]indole (also called JWH-081)
1-pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl)indole (also called JWH-122)
1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole (also called JWH-398)
1-(5-fluoropentyl)-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also called AM2201)
1-(5-fluoropentyl)-3-(2-iodobenzoyl)indole (also called AM694)
1-pentyl-3-[(4-methoxy)-benzoyl]indole (also called SR-19 or
RCS-4)
1-cyclohexylethyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (also called
SR-18 or RCS-8)
1-pentyl-3-(2-chlorophenylacetyl)indole (also called JWH-203)
Exhibit 2 - 299Adrafinil Hexarelin
AICAR 18a-homo-17b-hydroxyestr-4-en-3-one
Alexamorelin 18a-homo-3-hydroxy-estra-2,5(10)-
Aminoglutethimide dien-17-one (also called M-LMG)
Amiphenazole Human Chorionic Gonadotropin
Amphetamine and its analogs (with Human Growth Hormone (HGH)
the exception of Methamphetamine, 3b-hydroxy-5a-androst-1-en-17-one (also
MDMA, MDA and MDEA) called 1-Androsterone, 1-Andro and
Anamorelin 1-DHEA)
Anastrozole 17b-hydroxy-androstano[2,3-
Androsta-1,4,6-triene-3,17-dione (also d]isoxazole (also called
called Androstatrienedione or ATD) Androisoxazole)
Androsta-3, 5-diene-7, 17-dione (also 17b-hydroxy-androstano[3,2-
called Arimistane) c]isoxazole
Androst-2-en-17-one (also called 3b-hydroxy-estra-4,9,11-trien-17-one
2-Androstenone and Delta-2) 4-hydroxytestosterone
Androstanediol Ibutamoren
Androstanedione Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF-1)
Androstenediol Ipamorelin
Androstenedione Letrozole
Androstene-3,6,17-trione (also called Luteinizing Hormone (LH)
6-OXO or 4-AT) Mefenorex
AOD 9604 Meldonium
BAY 87-2243 Mestanolone
Bolasterone Mesterolone
Boldenone Methandienone (also called
Boldione Methandrostenolone)
Bromantan Methandriol
6-bromo-androstan-3,17-dione (also Methasterone
called 6-Bromo) Methenolone (also called Metenolone)
6-bromo-androsta-1,4-diene,3,17- Methyldienolone
dione (also called Aromadrol) 17a-methyl-androsta-1,4-diene-3,17b-diol
Buserelin (also called M1 and 4ADD)
Calusterone 17a-methyl-androst-2-ene-3,17b-diol
4-chloro-17a-methyl-androsta-1,4- 6a-methyl-androst-4-ene-3,17-dione
diene-3,17b-diol (also called 17a-methyl-androstan-3-hydroxyimine-17b-
Halodrol, Halovar and Helladrol) ol (also called D-Plex)
4-chloro-17a-methyl-androst-4-ene- 17a-methyl-5a-androstan-17b-ol (also called
3b,17b-diol (also called P-Mag and Methylandrostanol and Protobol)
Promagnon) 17a-methyl-3a,17b-dihydroxy-5a-androstane 17a-
4-chloro-17a-methyl-17b-hydroxy- methyl-3b,17b-dihydroxy-5a-androstane
androst-4-ene-3-one (also called 17a-methyl-3b,17b-dihydroxyandrost-4-ene
Mechabol) 17a-methyl-1-dihydrotestosterone
17a-methyl-4-hydroxynandrolone
Exhibit 2 - 300androst-4-ene-3,11-dione (also Methylphenidate
called Oxyguno) Methylstenbolone
Clenbuterol Methyltestosterone
Clobenzorex Methyltrienolone (also called Metribolone)
Clomiphene MHP MYO-X
Clostebol Mibolerone
Cyclofenil Modafinil
Danazol Molidustat (also called BAY 85-3934)
Dehydrochloromethyltestosterone (also Myostatin Propeptide GDF-8
called DHCMT and Turinabol) Nafarelin
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) Nandrolone (also called 19-nortestosterone)
Deslorelin Nikethamide
Desoxymethyltestosterone (DMT) 19-norandrostenediol (also called Boldandiol)
Dihydrotestosterone 19-norandrostenedione
4-dihydrotestosterone Norbolethone (also called Norboletone)
1, 3-dimethylamylamine (also called Norclostebol
DMAA, Methylhexaneamine and Norethandrolone
Dimethylpentylamine) Norfenfluramine
1, 3-dimethylbutylamine (also called Normethandrolone (also called
DMBA and 3-DMBA) Methylnortestosterone or MENT)
2a,17a-dimethyl-17b-hydroxy-5b- Norpseudoephedrine (also called Cathine)
androstan-3-one (also called Superdrol) Oxabolone (also called
Dromostanolone 4-hydroxy-19-nortestosterone)
Drostanolone Oxandrolone
Ephedra (also called Ma Huang, Oxymesterone
Bishop's Tea and Chi Powder) Oxymetholone
Ephedrine Pemoline
Epitestosterone Pentetrazol
2a,3a-epithio-17a-methyl-5a- Phendimetrazine
androstan-17b-ol (also called Phenmetrazine
Epistane and Havoc) Phentermine
Erythropoietin (EPO) Phenylpropanolamine (PPA)
Estra-4,9,11-triene, 17-dione (also Probenecid
called Tren, Trenavar, Trendione Prostanozol
and Trenazone) Pseudoephedrine
13a-ethyl-17a-hydroxygon-4-en-3-one [3,2,c]pyrazole-androst-4-en-17b-ol
Ethylestrenol Raloxifene
Etilefrine Roxadustat (also called FG-4592)
Exemestane Quinbolone
Fadrozole Selective Androgen Receptor Modulator
Fencamfamin (SARM) S-1
Fenethylline SARM S-4 (also called Andarine)
Fenfluramine SARM S-9
Fenproporex SARM S-22 (also called Ostarine)
FG-2216 SARM S-23
Exhibit 2 - 301Follistatin 344 SARM BMS-564,929
Formebolone SARM LGD-2226
Formestane (also called SARM LGD-4033 (also called Ligandrol)
4-hydroxyandrostenedione) SARM RAD-140 (also called Testolone)
Fulvestrant SARM SR9009 (also called Stenabolic)
Furazabol Sermorelin
[3,2-c]-furazan-5a-androstan-17b-ol Stanozolol
(also called Furazan or Furuza) Stenbolone
Gestrinone Strychnine
Ghrelin Tabimorelin
Gonadorelin Tamoxifen
Goserelin TB-500
Growth Hormone Releasing Peptide Tesamorelin
(GHRP)-1 Testolactone
GHRP-2 (also called Pralmorelin) Testosterone
GHRP-3 Tetrahydrogestrinone (THG)
GHRP-4 Tibolone
GHRP-5 Toremifene
GHRP-6 Trenbolone
GW 1516 Triptorelin
GW 0742 Vadadustat (also called AKB-6548)
Zeranol
Zilpaterol
D. Diuretics
Acetazolamide Flumethiazide
Amiloride Furosemide
Bendroflumethiazide Hydrochlorothiazide
Benzthiazide Hydroflumethiazide
Bumetanide Indapamide
Canrenone Methyclothiazide
Chlorothiazide Metolazone
Chlorthalidone Polythiazide
Clopamide Quinethazone
Cyclothiazide Spironolactone
Dichlorphenamide Triamterene
Ethacrynic Acid Trichlormethiazide
Exhibit 2 - 302COLLECTION PROCEDURES
When the player arrives at the collection site, the collector will ensure that the player is
positively identified through presentation of photo ID or identification by a Team representative.
If the player's identity cannot be established, the collector shall not proceed with the collection.
The player will be asked to select a sealed urine specimen cup. The player will then
provide her urine specimen under the direct observation of the collector.
The collector shall ensure that the player has provided a urine specimen of sufficient
volume for accurate testing. If such a sample cannot immediately be provided by the player, she
shall be instructed to remain at the testing site for a reasonable period of time until she can
provide such a specimen. Once the specimen has been obtained, the player will select a sealed
specimen kit, which contains two bottles. The collector, in the presence of the player, will pour
the specimen into two bottles. One bottle will be used as the primary or "A" specimen and the
other will be used as the split or "B" specimen. The specimen bottles will be sealed with tamper-
proof seals in the presence of the player. The seals will contain a unique identification number
that corresponds to the number on the chain of custody form.
The player and collector will complete the chain of custody form (which may be in hard
copy or electronic form) that documents the handling of the specimen. The collector will note
any irregularities concerning the specimen on the chain of custody form. Both the player and
collector will sign the chain of custody form. The kit will be sealed and sent via overnight
courier to the laboratory for testing. If a hard-copy chain of custody form is used, it will
included in the kit containing the two specimens that is sent by overnight courier to the
laboratory. If an electronic chain of custody form is used, it will be downloaded to the
Exhibit 2 - 303be analyzed. If the primary specimen tests positive, the split sample will be placed in frozen
storage and will be available for testing by a different laboratory, if requested by the player.
Exhibit 2 - 304DRUGS OF ABUSE AND MARIJUANA
CONFIRMATORY LABORATORY ANALYSIS LEVELS
Drugs of Abuse
Benzodiazepines 100 ng/ml
Synthetic Cathinones Any detectable level
Cocaine Metabolites 150 ng/ml
Gamma Hydroxybutyrate (GHB) 10 mcg/ml
Ketamine 100 ng/ml
LSD 200 pg/ml
Methamphetamine 500 ng/ml (must also contain amphetamine at a
concentration equal to or greater than 200 ng/ml)
MDMA, MDA and MDEA 500 ng/ml
Opiates:
Heroin Metabolite 6-acetylmorphine—10 ng/ml (only if the opiate
metabolites are in excess of 2,000 ng/ml)
Codeine Metabolites 2,000 ng/ml
Morphine Metabolites 2,000 ng/ml
Oxycodone 100 ng/ml
Hydrocodone 300 ng/ml
Methadone 300 ng/ml
Hydromorphone 300 ng/ml
Fentanyl 300 pg/ml
Propoxyphene 200 ng/ml
Phencyclidine (PCP) 25 ng/ml
Marijuana
Marijuana Metabolites 35 ng/ml
Synthetic Cannabinoids Any detectable level
Exhibit 2 - 305STEROIDS, PERFORMANCE-ENHANCING DRUGS AND MASKING AGENTS
CONFIRMATORY LABORATORY ANALYSIS LEVELS
All SPEDs (including Human Growth Hormone in its synthetic form and Testosterone in its
synthetic form detected through IRMS analysis), except those listed below, at any detectable
level.
Amphetamines and their analogs 500 ng/ml
Ephedra/Ephedrine 10 mcg/ml
Methylephedrine 10 mcg/ml
Nandrolone 2 ng/ml
Norpseudoephedrine 5 mcg/ml
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) 25 mcg/ml
Pseudoephedrine 150 mcg/ml
Exhibit 2 - 306NOTICE OF BONA FIDE EXCLUSIVE ENDORSEMENT AGREEMENT
I hereby notify WNBA Enterprises, LLC ("WNBA Enterprises") that I have entered into a Bona
Fide Exclusive Endorsement Agreement (the "Endorsement Agreement"), as that term is defined
in the Collective Bargaining Agreement between WNBA, LLC and the Women's National
Basketball Players Association.
1. The licensee under the Endorsement Agreement is:
2. The Endorsement Agreement was entered into on:
3. The term of the Endorsement Agreement commences on:
4. The term of the Endorsement Agreement expires on:
5. The rights granted under the Endorsement Agreement are only exercisable
in (the territory covered by the Endorsement Agreement):
6. The products and/or services covered by the Endorsement Agreement are:
_________________
Date:
Exhibit 3 - 307CORE SERVICE
After the 2019 Season
PLAYER SEASON(S)
Svetlana Abrosimova 2007
Sue Bird 2008, 2009
DeWanna Bonner 2015, 2016, 2018, 2019
Janell Burse 2007
Swin Cash 2008, 2009, 2010, 2014
Tamika Catchings 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012
Tina Charles 2018, 2019
Karima Christmas 2018
Monique Currie 2012, 2013, 2014
Erika DeSouza 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015
Katie Douglas 2008, 2009, 2010
Candice Dupree 2018, 2019, (2020)
Margo Dydek 2005, 2006, 2007
Allison Feastor 2004, 2005, 2006
Marie Ferdinand 2007
Sylvia Fowles 2015, 2016, 2017
Yolanda Griffith 2005, 2006, 2007
Becky Hammon 2006, 2007, 2008
Chamique Holdsclaw 2007
Glory Johnson 2019
Shannon Johnson 2006
Vickie Johnson 2005
Crystal Langhorne 2016, 2017, 2018
Betty Lenox 2008
Lisa Leslie 2007, 2008, 2009
Camille Little 2017
Angel McCoughtry 2018, 2019
Taj McWilliams-Franklin 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2012
Chasity Melvin 2007, 2008
Delisha Milton 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009
Deana Nolan 2008, 2009
Candace Parker 2015, 2016, 2017
Ticha Penicheiro 2004, 2005
Allie Quigley 2018
Ruth Riley 2008, 2009
Katie Smith 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2011
Tangela Smith 2004, 2008, 2009, 2010
Michelle Snow 2008
Exhibit 4 - 308Tammy Sutton-Brown 2006
Sheryl Swoopes 2007
Penny Taylor 2007
Jasmine Thomas 2019, (2020)
Tina Thompson 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
Tamika Whitmore 2008, 2009, 2010
Courtney Vandersloot 2019
Teresa Weatherspoon 2003
Natalie Williams 2005
Exhibit 4 - 309WNBA ROOKIE SCALE
2020 WNBA ROOKIE SCALE
4th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 68,000 69,360 76,297 86,701
Picks 5-8 65,250 66,555 73,211 83,194
Remaining Picks 62,500 63,751 70,127 79,690
Second Round 59,750 60,946 67,042 76,183
Third Round 57,000 58,141 61,049 69,770
All Others 57,000 58,141
Exhibit 5 - 3104th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 70,040 71,441 78,586 89,302
Picks 5-8 67,208 68,552 75,407 85,690
Remaining Picks 64,375 65,664 72,231 82,081
Second Round 61,543 62,774 69,053 78,469
Third Round 58,710 59,885 62,880 71,863
All Others 58,710 59,885
Exhibit 5 - 3114th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 72,141 73,584 80,943 91,981
Picks 5-8 69,224 70,609 77,669 88,261
Remaining Picks 66,306 67,634 74,398 84,543
Second Round 63,389 64,657 71,124 80,823
Third Round 60,471 61,682 64,767 74,019
All Others 60,471 61,682
Exhibit 5 - 3124th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 74,305 75,792 83,371 94,740
Picks 5-8 71,300 72,727 79,999 90,908
Remaining Picks 68,295 69,663 76,630 87,080
Second Round 65,290 66,597 73,258 83,248
Third Round 62,285 63,532 66,710 76,240
All Others 62,285 63,532
Exhibit 5 - 3134th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 76,535 78,066 85,873 97,582
Picks 5-8 73,439 74,909 82,399 93,636
Remaining Picks 70,344 71,753 78,929 89,692
Second Round 67,249 68,595 75,456 85,745
Third Round 64,154 65,438 68,711 78,527
All Others 64,154 65,438
Exhibit 5 - 3144th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 78,831 80,408 88,449 100,510
Picks 5-8 75,643 77,156 84,871 96,445
Remaining Picks 72,455 73,905 81,297 92,383
Second Round 69,267 70,653 77,720 88,317
Third Round 66,079 67,401 70,773 80,883
All Others 66,079 67,401
Exhibit 5 - 3154th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 81,196 82,820 91,102 103,525
Picks 5-8 77,912 79,470 87,418 99,338
Remaining Picks 74,628 76,122 83,736 95,154
Second Round 71,345 72,773 80,051 90,967
Third Round 68,061 69,423 72,896 83,309
All Others 68,061 69,423
Exhibit 5 - 3164th Year
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Pick Option Base
Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary
Salary
First Round
Picks 1-4 83,631 85,304 93,835 106,631
Picks 5-8 80,249 81,855 90,040 102,318
Remaining Picks 76,867 78,406 86,248 98,009
Second Round 73,485 74,956 82,453 93,696
Third Round 70,103 71,506 75,083 85,808
All Others 70,103 71,506
Exhibit 5 - 317OFFER SHEET
Name of Player: Date:
Address of Player Name of New Team:
and email Address of Player:
Name, Address and email Name of ROFR Team:
Address of Player's Representative
Authorized to Act for Player: Address of ROFR Team:
Attached hereto is an unsigned Player Contract that the New Team has offered to
the player and that the player desires to accept. The attached Player Contract separately specifies
in its exhibits those Principal Terms that will be included in the Player Contract with the ROFR
Team if that Team gives the player a timely First Refusal Exercise Notice.
Player: New Team:
By ________________ By _______________
Exhibit 6 - 318FIRST REFUSAL EXERCISE NOTICE
Name of Player: Date:
Address of Player Name of New Team:
and email Address of Player:
Name, Address and email Name of ROFR Team:
Address of Player's Representative
Authorized to Act for Player: Address of ROFR Team:
The undersigned WNBA Team hereby exercises its Right of First Refusal so as to
create a binding agreement with the player containing the Principal Terms set forth in the Player
Contract annexed to the player's Offer Sheet (a copy of which is attached hereto).
ROFR Team:
By ________________
Exhibit 7 - 319CORE PLAYER DESIGNATION NOTICE
Name of Player: Date:
Address of Player Name of Team:
and email Address of Player:
Name, Address and email Address of Team:
Address of Player's Representative
Authorized to Act for Player:
The Team hereby designates the player as a Core Player pursuant to Article VI,
Section 7 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Women's National Basketball
Association and the Women's National Basketball Players Association dated January 17, 2020
(the "CBA"). Attached hereto is the requisite Qualifying Offer pursuant to Article VI of the
CBA.
Team:
By _________________
Exhibit 8 - 320JOINT WNBA/WNBPA POLICY ON DOMESTIC/INTIMATE PARTNER
VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND CHILD ABUSE
Through this Policy, the Women's National Basketball Association ("WNBA")
and the Women's National Basketball Players Association ("WNBPA") (collectively, "the
Parties") have agreed to work together to address domestic/intimate partner violence, sexual
assault, and child abuse in the WNBA.
Covered Behavior
Acts that constitute domestic/intimate partner violence, sexual assault, and child
abuse are prohibited at all times and regardless of where they occur.
For purposes of this Policy, "domestic/intimate partner violence" includes, but is
not limited to, any actual or attempted violent act that is committed by one party in an intimate or
family relationship against another party in that relationship. Such an act may include physical
assault or battery, sexual assault, stalking, harassment, or other forms of physical or
psychological abuse. It may also include behavior that intimidates, manipulates, humiliates,
isolates, frightens, terrorizes, coerces, threatens, injures, or places another person in fear of
bodily harm. Domestic/intimate partner violence can be perpetrated by current or former
spouses, current or former domestic or same sex partners, persons who are living together or
have cohabitated, persons with children in common, persons who have or had an intimate or
dating relationship, and family members. Domestic/intimate partner violence can be a single act
or a pattern of behavior in a relationship.
For purposes of this Policy, "sexual assault" includes, but is not limited to, any
actual or attempted sexual contact or act to which one party has not consented. Lack of consent
is deemed to exist when a person uses or threatens the use of force, harassment, or any other
Exhibit 9 - 321mentally incapable of giving consent, as a result of disability, incapacitation, intoxication, or
otherwise.
For purposes of this Policy, "child abuse" includes, but is not limited to, any act
or failure to act by a parent, caregiver, or adult that results in death, serious physical or emotional
harm, or sexual or other exploitation of a child. Child abuse also includes behavior that poses an
imminent risk of such harm to a child.
Policy Committee
The Parties shall establish a joint committee to provide education, support,
treatment, referrals, counseling, and other resources for players, their family members, and
others at risk (the "Policy Committee"). The Policy Committee will be comprised of two
representatives from the WNBA and two representatives from the WNBPA (the "Party
Representatives"), as well as three independent experts with experience in domestic/intimate
partner violence, sexual assault, and/or child abuse (the "Expert Representatives"). All decisions
of the Policy Committee shall be made by a majority vote, unless otherwise stated in this Policy,
and shall be final, binding, and unappealable. The Party Representatives shall jointly select the
three Expert Representatives to serve on the Policy Committee within 60 days of the issuance of
this Policy. The Expert Representatives will each serve for the duration of this Policy; provided,
however, that either the WNBA or the WNBPA may discharge any of them on an annual basis
by serving written notice upon the Expert Representative(s) and upon the other Party within 60
days of the anniversary of the appointment of such person. If an Expert Representative is
discharged, the Party Representatives shall jointly select a successor Expert Representative
within 30 days of the notice of discharge.
Exhibit 9 - 322select any or all of the Expert Representatives within 60 days of the issuance of this Policy or
within 30 days of the notice of any discharge of an Expert Representative, the following process
will be implemented. Within five days following the deadline to select the Expert
Representative(s), the Party Representatives shall exchange lists containing the names and
qualifications of three proposed Expert Representatives per open position. Within five days
following the exchange of such lists, the Party Representatives shall jointly select from that
group of individuals the Expert Representative(s) needed to serve on the Policy Committee. If
they are unable to do so, then, within an additional three-day period, the Party Representatives
shall engage in a process of alternatively striking names from the lists until one name remains for
each open position, and such person(s) shall be appointed as the Expert Representative(s).
Training and Education
The Parties seek to prevent incidents of domestic/intimate partner violence, sexual
assault, and child abuse from occurring through educational programs and awareness training.
The Policy Committee will implement and oversee all training and educational
programs for WNBA players that address issues of domestic/intimate partner violence, sexual
assault, and child abuse, and shall make all determinations related thereto including, but not
limited to, the staffing, content, format, and frequency of such programs. The Policy Committee
will annually review such programs to ensure that they are effective and that the content is
appropriate, thorough, and properly communicated to the players.
Hotline
Within 60 days of the issuance of this Policy, the Parties shall jointly select a
service provider to support a 24-hour, confidential hotline that can be used by players, their
Exhibit 9 - 323as defined by this Policy to seek assistance and referrals (the "Service Provider").
If the Parties are unable to do so, then, within five days following the deadline to
select the Service Provider, they shall exchange lists containing the names, qualifications, and
cost of three proposed Service Providers. Within five days following the exchange of such lists,
the Parties shall jointly select the Service Provider. If the Parties are unable to do so, then,
within an additional three-day period, they shall engage in a process of alternatively striking
names from the lists until one name remains, and such organization shall be appointed as the
Service Provider.
Treatment and Intervention
1. General
The WNBA or the WNBPA may refer a player to the Policy Committee in any of
the following circumstances:
a. As part of a disciplinary determination of the Commissioner for conduct in
violation of this Policy; or
b. After a Player is criminally convicted of an offense that involves conduct
in violation of this Policy.
The Policy Committee will also be available as a resource to any player who
voluntarily seeks assistance.
Once a player has been referred to the Policy Committee, an expert selected by
the Policy Committee will conduct an initial evaluation of the player as soon as is practicable.
Following such evaluation, the Policy Committee will develop a Treatment and Accountability
Plan ("TAP") for the player, as may be appropriate. As part of the TAP, the Policy Committee
Exhibit 9 - 324sessions with a licensed professional, and take other steps that it deems necessary. In developing
the TAP, the Policy Committee will take into account any treatment or counseling that the player
may have initiated on her own or pursuant to a criminal resolution of any charges against her.
The Policy Committee will oversee the player's compliance with any TAP, and
shall provide additional support to the player as needed. Any treating professionals shall provide
regular, written status reports to the Policy Committee that detail the player's progress and
compliance with the TAP. The Policy Committee may periodically revise, modify, extend, or
close the TAP on its own initiative, on the recommendation of the player's treating
professional(s), or upon petition of the player. All information related to a player's involvement
with the Policy Committee shall be kept confidential.
The Policy Committee shall determine whether the player has successfully
completed her TAP, and may also issue a revised TAP at any time. A player must receive a
certification of completion from the Policy Committee in order to conclude her treatment and the
oversight of the Policy Committee.
2. Non-Compliance
Each player is required to comply with the directives of the Policy Committee,
including with her TAP. If the Policy Committee determines that a player has failed to comply
without a reasonable explanation, it shall notify the WNBA. For the first such instance of non-
compliance, the WNBA shall issue a warning to the player. If such non-compliance continues
for three additional days after the warning is issued, or for the second or any additional instances
of non-compliance as determined by the Policy Committee, the WNBA shall fine the player in
Exhibit 9 - 325player has, in the judgment of the Policy Committee, resumed full compliance.
If the Policy Committee determines that a player has demonstrated substantial
non-compliance, without a reasonable explanation, through a pattern of behavior that
demonstrates a mindful disregard for her treatment responsibilities, it shall notify the WNBA,
which shall thereupon impose:
a. A one-game suspension for the first instance of substantial non-
compliance; and
b. A suspension that is at least one game longer than his immediately-
preceding suspension for each additional instance of substantial non-compliance and that shall
continue until, in the judgment of the Policy Committee, the player resumes full compliance with
its directives, including with her TAP.
Costs
Any and all costs of the training, education, treatment, intervention, and other
resources described above including, but not limited to, the Policy Committee, Expert
Representatives, education and training programs, hotline, experts, and counselors, will be
shared equally by the Parties (unless otherwise covered by any insurance plan provided to
WNBA players).
Investigation of Incidents
The WNBA will give the WNBPA and the player prompt notice of the
commencement of any investigation into an alleged violation of this Policy.
Exhibit 9 - 326including, but not limited to, outside legal counsel, outside investigators, or other individuals
with relevant experience or expertise.
The WNBA will notify the WNBPA when it has concluded its investigation and
report whether it believes a violation of the Policy has occurred.
Cooperation
Except in circumstances where the player has a reasonable apprehension of her
own criminal prosecution, players shall cooperate fully with any WNBA investigation under this
Policy. Any player interviewed by the WNBA as part of its investigation into a potential
violation of this Policy by that player is entitled to have a representative from the WNBPA
present during the interview, and the WNBA will provide the WNBPA with at least 48 hours'
notice before any in-person interview.
Failing to cooperate in full, or interfering in any manner, with a WNBA
investigation will subject the non-cooperative individual to discipline consistent with the terms
of Article XIV, Section 12(a) of the CBA. It may constitute a violation of this cooperation
requirement for a player to attempt to or enter into any agreement with a witness, victim, or other
party that would discourage or prevent that individual from cooperating with a WNBA
investigation. While a player is obligated to provide all reasonable information, including
contact information, for a witness, victim, or other party, the player is under no obligation to
demand, request, or otherwise encourage anyone to cooperate with a WNBA investigation.
Administrative Leave
While an investigation is pending, the Commissioner may at any time place the
player on administrative leave with pay for a reasonable period of time. The parties agree that
Exhibit 9 - 327investigation under this Policy. Instead, administrative leave should be applied in only those
cases in which a balancing of all relevant factors clearly establishes that it is reasonable to do so
under the totality of the circumstances.
In deciding whether to place a player on paid administrative leave, the
Commissioner shall consider among other relevant factors the following non-exhaustive list of
factors:
• The nature and severity of the allegation(s), including whether a weapon
was involved and whether any injury was suffered by anyone (including the player);
• Whether the allegations are supported by credible information;
• The relationship between the player and accuser;
• Information regarding the player's history of prior similar conduct, or lack
thereof;
• The prior criminal or disciplinary history of the player, or lack thereof;
• The status of any criminal investigation and/or prosecution regarding the
alleged incident, including whether any arrests have been made;
• The character of the player;
• The player's reputation within the WNBA community;
• The WNBA's past practice regarding discipline imposed on a player for
similar allegations; and
• The risk of reputational damage to the WNBA and/or the player's team.
The WNBA will give prompt notice to the WNBPA, the player's team, and the
player of any decision to place a player on paid administrative leave pursuant to this Policy. The
Exhibit 9 - 328preclude further disciplinary action by the Commissioner against the player in accordance with
the provisions of this Policy.
While on administrative leave, the player shall be ineligible to play in any of her
team's games. However, the player will continue to receive her salary and other welfare benefits
to which she would be entitled as an active player. The player and the player's team may also
request that the player be allowed to participate in non-public practices, workouts, or other team
activities with the consent of the WNBA, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Under the Grievance and Arbitration procedures of the CBA, a player may
challenge the reasonableness of the Commissioner's decision to place the player on
administrative leave, or the duration of any such period of administrative leave, based on the
totality of the circumstances. In the event of any such challenge, a hearing will be scheduled as
soon as practicable.
Discipline
Based on a finding of just cause, the Commissioner may fine, suspend, or dismiss
and disqualify from any further association with the WNBA and its teams a player who engages
in prohibited conduct in violation of this Policy. Repeat offenders will be subject to enhanced
discipline.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an admission to, or conviction for, any offense
that involves conduct that violates this Policy, whether after trial or upon a plea of guilty, as well
as any plea of no contest or nolo contendere, will conclusively establish a violation of this
Policy. A violation based on this ground, however, shall in no way limit or prevent the WNBA
from continuing to investigate the incident. Additionally, such admission, conviction, or plea is
Exhibit 9 - 329after trial in a criminal proceeding may not be subject to disciplinary penalties under this Policy.
In conjunction with any discipline imposed by the Commissioner for a violation
of this Policy, the WNBA may also require the player to undergo an evaluation under the
supervision of the Policy Committee, to participate in relevant training, education, or counseling
programs as determined by the Policy Committee, and/or to perform community service;
provided that, with respect to the player's participation in any counseling programs, the WNBA
shall consider the number of any counseling sessions that a player is ordered by a court to attend
and does subsequently attend. Any discipline determined by the Commissioner may be referred
to the player's team for imposition.
Prior to the determination of any discipline, the Parties shall meet to discuss the
matter. This conference shall be considered confidential, and no statements made during the
discussion shall be admissible in any subsequent challenge to any discipline imposed on the
player.
The Commissioner will determine all discipline under this Policy on a case-by-
case basis, upon consideration of all facts and circumstances, including aggravating and
mitigating factors.
Potential aggravating factors include, but are not limited to:
• Prior allegations of, or convictions for, prohibited conduct;
• The use of a weapon or other means of coercion;
• The use of, or threat to use, force or violence;
• The vulnerability of the victim;
• The presence of a minor;
Exhibit 9 - 330• A civil verdict against the player for the underlying conduct.
Potential mitigating factors include, but are not limited to:
• Acceptance of responsibility;
• Evidence of self-defense;
• Complete and truthful cooperation with the investigation;
• Voluntary participation in any treatment or counseling programs;
• The player's overall good character;
• The player's reputation in the WNBA community; and
• A civil verdict in favor of the player for the underlying conduct.
In cases where the Commissioner imposes a suspension, any period of time the
player spent on paid administrative leave will be credited toward the suspension provided that
the player remits to the League the applicable portion of salary that the player received while on
paid administrative leave.
Challenges to any disciplinary action shall be made through the Grievance and
Arbitration process of the CBA.
Confidentiality
The Parties recognize the importance of confidentiality and privacy to the success
of this Policy. Accordingly, the Parties will maintain confidentiality throughout the
investigatory, disciplinary, and treatment process, and will take reasonable measures to protect
the information gathered pursuant to this Policy, including by any outside advisors or experts.
Any medical information obtained during the investigatory, disciplinary, and treatment process
will be kept confidential as required by applicable law.
Exhibit 9 - 331be necessary to further the WNBA's investigation or may be required by law, including by court
order or subpoena. Accordingly, the Parties cannot and do not guarantee that complete
confidentiality will be maintained. The Parties also reserve the right to make notifications to law
enforcement or other appropriate authorities if either the WNBA or the WNBPA becomes aware
that there is a threat of imminent harm to any individual or in cases where the victim is a child or
is either mentally or physically incapacitated. Additionally, in matters where a violation is found
and discipline is imposed, such findings and discipline may be the subject of public statements
by the WNBA and/or the WNBPA.
Retaliation
Under this Policy, it is prohibited to retaliate, or threaten to retaliate, against any
individual who, in good faith, reports a potential violation of this Policy or who honestly
participates in an investigation of such a report. It does not matter whether the investigation
establishes that a violation of the Policy occurred, as long as the report of the violation or
participation in the investigation is in good faith. Such retaliation includes, but is not limited to,
threats, intimidation, harassment, and any adverse employment or other action, whether express
or implied. Anyone who retaliates, or threatens to retaliate, against an individual who reports, or
participates in an investigation into, an alleged violation of this Policy, or against any victim or
other witness, will be subject to independent disciplinary action.
As with any complaint brought in bad faith, any individual, including coaches,
general managers, or other team officials, who reports a violation of this Policy knowing such
claim is malicious, false, or fundamentally frivolous shall be subject to disciplinary action.
Exhibit 9 - 332Anyone who is the victim of or acting on behalf of a victim of domestic/intimate
partner violence, sexual assault, or child abuse, as defined by this Policy, is strongly encouraged
to call the hotline established under this Policy as soon as possible after the incident to discuss
the availability of counseling, treatment, security, and other appropriate resources.
If you are in immediate danger or involved in a situation in which another person
is in immediate danger, the Parties recommend that you contact 911 or your local police
department. Support and crisis intervention are also available from the National Domestic
Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-SAFE (7233).
Exhibit 9 - 3332020 Transition Rules
January 17, 2020
Page 1
January 17, 2020
Terri Jackson
Executive Director
Women's National Basketball Players Association
1133 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
Re: 2020 Transition Rules
Dear Terri:
This will confirm our agreement that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
2020 Collective Bargaining Agreement ("CBA"), the following rules shall apply with respect to
the 2020 WNBA Season. All defined terms and all rules of interpretation contained in the CBA
shall apply to this agreement.
1. The Moratorium Agreement dated as of December 31, 2019 is hereby amended so that
the Moratorium Period is extended to continue in effect through 11:59 p.m. (EST) on January 19,
2020.
2. (a) Teams will have from January 20, 2020 through January 27, 2020 to make each
type of Qualifying Offer (and the Core Player Designation) set forth in Article VI (i.e., Restricted
Qualifying Offer, Reserved Qualifying Offer, and Core Qualifying Offer). For the purposes of
Article VI, Sections 7(e)(iii) or (f)(iii), if a Core Qualifying Offer given to a player who would
otherwise be a Restricted Free Agent is withdrawn after January 25, 2020 (i.e., during the period
from January 26, 2020 through March 9, 2020), a Restricted Qualifying Offer may be made
within forty-eight (48) hours of such withdrawal.
(b) If it has not previously been withdrawn, a Qualifying Offer of any type shall
remain open until March 9, 2020, except that Restricted Qualifying Offers made on or after
January 26, 2020 pursuant to Article VI, Sections 7(e)(iii) or (f)(iii) shall remain open until
March 16, 2020.
(c) If a Team does not make the applicable Qualifying Offer to a Veteran Free Agent
by January 27, 2020 (or within forty-eight (48) hours of the withdrawal of a Core Qualifying
Offer in the case of a player described in the second sentence of 2(a) above), the player shall
become an Unrestricted Free Agent on January 28, 2020 (or at the conclusion of the applicable
forty-eight (48)-hour period in the case of a player described in the second sentence of 2(a)
above).
(d) A Veteran Free Agent shall become either a Reserved Player, a Restricted Free
Agent, or a Core Player if the applicable Qualifying Offer is made in a timely manner, and shall
be subject to her Prior Team's exclusive negotiating rights or Right of First Refusal, as the case
may be, in accordance with the provisions of Article VI.
334This agreement ("Agreement") is entered into on January 17, 2020 (the "Effective
Date"), by and between WNBA Enterprises, LLC ("WNBA Enterprises"), a Delaware limited
liability company, with its principal place of business at 450 Harmon Meadow Boulevard,
Secaucus, New Jersey 07094, and the Women's National Basketball Players Association (the
"Players Association"), an unincorporated association with offices at 1133 Avenue of the
Americas, 5th Floor, New York, New York 10036, and the sole and exclusive bargaining
representative of persons who are or may become employed as professional basketball players
("Players") in a professional basketball league operated by WNBA, LLC (the "WNBA").
WHEREAS, WNBA Enterprises and the Players Association entered into that certain
Agreement, dated March 5, 2014 (the "Prior Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, in connection with the collective bargaining agreement, entered into on
January 17, 2020, by and between the WNBA and the Players Association (the "CBA"), WNBA
Enterprises and the Players Association have agreed to terminate the Prior Agreement and
simultaneously enter into this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1. Definitions: Unless otherwise defined herein, all capitalized terms used in this
Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CBA.
2. Term of Prior Agreement: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Prior
Agreement, the term of the Prior Agreement shall end January 16, 2020 (the "End Date").
3. Rights: (a) The Players Association, on behalf of present and future WNBA
Players, hereby grants to WNBA Enterprises the worldwide right to license in a group of three
(3) or more players the Player Attributes of all such Players (including the right to make
individual use, or license the individual use, of a Player's Player Attributes in a series of three (3)
or more players) solely (i) in combination with the use of any or all WNBA and Team names,
logos, trademarks, trade dress, uniforms or other form of WNBA intellectual property and (ii) for
use in connection with any product, premium, or service covered by the licenses existing as of
the Effective Date listed on Exhibit A hereto (the "Existing Licenses"), through the expiration of
such Existing Licenses (plus applicable sell-off periods) or, in the case of the league's current
apparel and footwear licensee, through the expiration of any extension of the current agreement
or immediately succeeding successor agreement with a different partner (plus applicable sell-off
periods).
(b) In the event that a Player retires from the WNBA or otherwise ceases to play
professional basketball for the WNBA, WNBA Enterprises shall retain the right (i) through the
term of the applicable Existing License, to license such Player's Player Attributes in connection
with authentic or replica apparel (unless such Player elects to revoke such right by written notice
to WNBA Enterprises after one (1) year from the date such Player retires or otherwise ceases to
play professional basketball for the WNBA) and (ii) to license such Player's Player Attributes in
336one (1) year from the date the Player retires or otherwise ceases to play professional basketball
for the WNBA on the same terms and conditions as apply to active Players under this
Agreement.
(c) The rights granted to WNBA Enterprises and the obligations undertaken by the
Players and Players Association under this Paragraph do not include, and should not be
construed to include, any right to use Player Attributes in a manner that creates an endorsement
or testimonial for any product or service by any Player or group of Players.
4. Product License Fees: (a) In full consideration of the rights granted by the
Players Association under this Agreement, WNBA Enterprises shall pay the Players each
Season, through the Players Association, 50% of Player Merchandise Revenues ("Product
License Fees"). Within ninety (90) days after the end of a Season, WNBA Enterprises shall
furnish a full and accurate statement and accounting showing all information relating to the
calculation of the Product License Fees for that Season (the "Statement") and simultaneously
with the submission of the Statement for that Season shall pay the Product License Fees for that
Season. Any payments due under the Prior Agreement through the End Date that have not
already been paid shall be included in the Product License Fees for the 2020 Season. In addition,
WNBA Enterprises shall furnish interim monthly statements of the calculation of the Product
License Fees to the same extent such statements were required to be furnished under the Prior
Agreement.
(b) For purposes of this Agreement, "Player Merchandise Revenues" shall mean all
revenues (excluding reasonable payments designated in any Existing License to be used
specifically for advertising and promotion for the products or services covered by that license
agreement) received by WNBA Enterprises pursuant to an Existing License from the sale of any
product or service on or in which a Player Attribute is depicted, incorporated or otherwise used
pursuant to the rights granted to WNBA Enterprises under this Agreement (less any withholding
taxes, other government-imposed charges, and third-party participation payments directly related
to such revenues).
5. Exclusivity: (a) The Players Association shall not authorize any person or entity
to use any Player Attribute, or the Players Association name, logo (whether now in existence or
hereafter created or adopted) or other identifiable feature, in connection with the manufacture,
advertisement, promotion or sale of any type of product (other than footwear) worn by a Player
during a WNBA or Team practice, game or "celebratory" event (including, but not limited to,
replica jerseys or shorts, shooting shirts, sports bras, practicewear (e.g., mesh tank tops),
compression shorts and "celebratory" t-shirts and headwear) through the expiration of any
extension of the Nike agreement that currently expires on December 31, 2025 or through the
expiration of any immediately succeeding successor agreement to the Nike agreement with a
different partner.
(b) This Agreement is not intended to limit, and does not in any way limit, the rights
of each Player individually and the Players Association in a group license (subject to the terms of
the paragraph 6(d) of the Standard Player Contract) to grant the use of Player Attributes for
commercial or charitable purposes, provided that such individual grants or group licensing grants
337or a Team pursuant to this Agreement or the terms of the CBA or the Standard Player Contract.
6. Representation, Warranty and Indemnification: (a) The Players Association
makes the following representations and warranties, each of which has been relied on by WNBA
Enterprises as a material inducement to enter into this Agreement:
(i) The Players Association represents and warrants that it has not entered
into, shall not enter into, and is not aware of, any agreement, arrangement or
understanding which, either individually or taken together, would conflict or interfere
with the rights granted to WNBA Enterprises under this Agreement or under Article
XXVI of the CBA.
(ii) The Players Association represents and warrants that it has not authorized
or encouraged, and shall not authorize or encourage, any person or entity to engage in
any conduct that would conflict or interfere with the rights granted to WNBA Enterprises
under this Agreement or under Article XXVI of the CBA.
(b) The Players Association shall indemnify and hold harmless WNBA Enterprises,
the WNBA, each Team and its or their respective owners, directors, officers, employees, agents,
affiliates, successors, assigns and licensees ("WNBAE indemnified parties"), from and against
all liability and costs (including attorneys' fees, whether incurred in an action with a third party
or between the parties hereto) arising out of any misrepresentation or breach of the warranties or
covenants contained in this Agreement, provided that, in the case of any third-party claim: (i)
the Players Association is given prompt notice of any such claim, (ii) has the right to approve
counsel and/or has the opportunity to undertake the defense of such claim and (iii) the
indemnified party does not admit liability with respect to and does not settle such claim without
the prior written consent of the Players Association.
(c) WNBA Enterprises shall indemnify and hold harmless the Players Association
and its officers and employees, the successors, assigns and personal representatives of the
foregoing parties, and individual Players ("Players Association indemnified parties"), from and
against all liability and costs (including attorneys' fees) arising out of litigation, judgments or
settlements resulting from any claim asserted against any Players Association indemnified party
based on WNBA Enterprises intentional or negligent misuse of the rights granted to it
hereunder, provided that: (i) WNBA Enterprises is given prompt notice of any such claim, (ii)
has the right to approve counsel and/or has the opportunity to undertake the defense of such
claim and (iii) the indemnified party does not admit liability with respect to and does not settle
such claim without the prior written consent of WNBA Enterprises.
7. Miscellaneous: (a) Nothing in this Agreement shall affect, or be construed as a
limitation upon, WNBA Enterprises or any third party's right to use, without regard to the
provisions of this Agreement, any Player's Player Attributes for editorial purposes or any other
purpose that, as a matter of law, does not require the Player's permission or authorization.
(b) Any controversy or claim between or among the Players Association, any Player
or WNBA Enterprises arising out of or relating to this agreement, including any alleged breach
338XXII of the CBA.
(c) Nothing in this agreement shall detract from or otherwise limit or affect the rights
granted to the WNBA, WNBA Enterprises and the Teams pursuant to the Standard Player
Contract, any WNBA or Team Marketing and Promotional Agreement or the CBA.
(d) WNBA Enterprises shall keep accurate books of account and records at its
principal place of business covering all transactions relating to the Existing Licenses. The
Players Association and its authorized representatives shall have the right, at its sole cost and
expense, during business hours for a reasonable period of time, on reasonable prior written notice
(but no more than once per Year), to examine and audit such books of account and records and
all other documents and materials in WNBA Enterprises' possession and under its control with
respect to the Existing Licenses, and shall have free and full access for such purposes and for the
purpose of making extracts and copies. Should an audit by the Players Association establish a
deficiency between the amount found to be due to the Players and the amount actually paid by
WNBA Enterprises, the amount of the deficiency shall be paid promptly by WNBA Enterprises.
Any records or material reviewed during any such audit will be considered strictly confidential
business information not to be shared with others (except for officers, employees and outside
advisors of the Players Association). All books of account and records of WNBA Enterprises
covering all transactions relating to the Existing Licenses shall be kept available for at least two
(2) years after the termination of this agreement.
WNBA ENTERPRISES, LLC WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL
PLAYERS ASSOCIATION
By: � By:
�Jamin Dershowitz
General Counsel