NO-STRIKE AND NO-LOCKOUT PROVISIONS
Section 1. No Strike.
During the stated term of this Agreement, neither the Players Association nor its
members shall engage in any strikes, cessations or stoppages of work, or any other similar
interference with the operations of the WNBA or any of its Teams.
Section 2. No Lockout.
During the stated term of this Agreement, neither the WNBA nor any Teams shall
engage in any lockouts, cessations or stoppages of work or any other similar interference with
the employment of WNBA players.
Section 3. No Breach of Player Contracts.
The Players Association agrees that it will not engage in any concerted activities
to breach, induce the breach of, or threaten to breach or induce the breach of, any Standard
Player Contract or Marketing and Promotional Agreement.
Section 4. Best Efforts of Players Association.
The Players Association will use its best efforts: to prevent each player from
rendering, or threatening to render, services as a professional basketball player for another
professional basketball league during each Season covered by a Standard Player Contract
between such player and a WNBA Team; to prevent each player from refusing, or threatening to
refuse, to participate in any WNBA Competition; to prevent each player from otherwise
breaching, or threatening to breach, a Standard Player Contract or Marketing and Promotional
Agreement; and to prevent each player from making any demand upon the WNBA or a Team,
including, but not limited to, a demand that any Standard Player Contract or Marketing and
Promotional Agreement be renegotiated during the term thereof.
226The WNBA and the Players Association agree that a player who publicly
demands a renegotiation of her Standard Player Contract or Marketing and Promotional
Agreement, and who threatens to withhold the services she has agreed to render under such
Standard Player Contract or Marketing and Promotional Agreement, or to perform at a level
below her full capabilities unless such renegotiation takes place, shall be considered to have
engaged in conduct impairing the faithful and thorough discharge of the player obligations under
Article VI, Section 3.
Section 6. No Discrimination.
Neither the WNBA, any Team nor the Players Association shall discriminate in
the interpretation or application of this Agreement against or in favor of any Player because of
religion, race, national origin, sexual orientation, marital status or activity or lack of activity on
behalf of the Players Association.
227