RIGHT OF SET-OFF
Section 1. General.
When a WNBA Team terminates a Standard Player Contract ("First Contract") in
circumstances where the Team, following such termination, continues to be liable for the Base
Salary called for by such Contract, the Team's liability for such Base Salary shall be reduced, to
the extent provided for in this Article XXX, by any compensation earned by the player (for
services as a player) from any professional basketball team or teams (the "Subsequent Team(s)")
during the Season(s) covered by the terminated Contract (including, but not limited to,
compensation earned but not paid during such period). The reduction in the Team's liability for
each Season (or partial Season) covered by the First Contract shall be calculated for each Season
(or partial Season) as follows:
Step 1: Calculate the total compensation earned by the player (for services as a player)
from the Subsequent Team(s) during the Salary Cap Year encompassing the relevant
Season (or partial Season).
Step 2: Subtract the Minimum Player Salary applicable to players with three (3) or
more Years of Service, less ten thousand dollars (\$10,000) from the result in Step 1.
Step 3: If the result in Step 2 is a negative amount, there is no reduction in the Team's
liability for the relevant Season (or partial Season). If the result in Step 2 is a positive
amount, the reduction in the Team's liability for the relevant Season (or partial Season)
shall equal 50% (fifty percent) of that amount.
In the event that the formula above results in the player receiving more than ten
thousand dollars (\$10,000) above the Maximum Player Salary applicable to any Season from
both the Subsequent Team(s) and the First Contract, the reduction in the Team's liability for each
Season (or partial Season) covered by the First Contract shall be increased so that the player
receives only ten thousand dollars (\$10,000) above the Maximum Player Salary from both the
Subsequent Team(s) and the First Contract.
205For the purposes of this Article, a "professional basketball team" shall mean any
team in any country that pays money or compensation of any kind to a basketball player for
rendering playing services to such team (other than a reasonable stipend limited to basic living
expenses). For purposes of this Article, "compensation" earned by a player from a Subsequent
Team shall include: (i) in the case of a WNBA Team, the player's Base Salary only; and (ii) in
the case of a non-WNBA team, all forms of cash and non-cash compensation other than benefits
comparable to the type of benefits (e.g., medical and dental insurance) provided to a WNBA
player in accordance with Article X above, travel and moving expenses, and any car and housing
provided temporarily by the team to the player during the period of time for which the player
renders services to the team.
206